From: Eric Cordian <emc@wire.insync.net>
Date: Fri, 20 Feb 1998 14:39:55 +0800
To: cypherpunks@cyberpass.net
Subject: The Political Education of Eric Tune
In-Reply-To: <3.0.5.32.19980219204255.007c3680@pop3.lvcablemodem.com>
Message-ID: <199802200632.AAA01478@wire.insync.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



"Eric J. Tune" <paladin@lvcablemodem.com> writes:
 
> You ever served in the military?  Unless you've been under fire, you
> should shut the fuck up about shit you know nothing about nor could
> comprehend.
 
Similarly, only rapists should judge other rapists, only murderers
other murderers, only SS members other SS members, and only soldiers
other soldiers, only tyrants other tyrants, only gas-chamber operators
other gas-chamber operators.
 
Waaaaaaa!  The Baby-Napalmers of the world cry, no one "understands"
us.
 
> Listen up jerk, in case you didn't get any news during 1990, Iraq
> attacked Kuwait, and murdered thousands of Kuwaitis.
 
Iraq, mislead by the US into believing that there would be no
interference in its long-standing dispute with Kuwait, annexed it,
providing a pretense for the US to do some dirty work for the
Israelis, who did not want to tolerate an Arab military giant in their
region.
 
Kuwait provoked Iraq far more than places like Panama and Grenada have
provoked the United States, when US forces poured in to remove
existing governments, and install regimes sympathetic to Washington,
also killing thousands of uninvolved civilians.
 
Then again, perhaps you believed the touching "Baby Incubator" story
performed by the daughter of the Kuwaiti ambassador for an
appreciative Congress, who were unaware of who she was, or that she
was lying through her teeth.  Perhaps you were also unaware that
American public opinion during the Persian Gulf War was under the
control of a domestic public relations firm hired by the government of
Kuwait.
 
> "Don't start no shit and there won't be no shit"... ever heard that,
> asshole
 
America always manages to find some pretense to fight the wars it
decides to fight.  Sometimes there is a staged attack, and an
arrangement for allies to "invite" us into the conflict.  Other times,
some imagined threat, like the chance that an infant formula factory
"could be used" to produce material that "might be used" for chemical
or biological warfare. Most of us who have watched the antics of
America for more than a few decades see through the transparent
rhetoric employed in such situations to manufacture public consent.
 
> America would have never been involved if Iraq hadn't invaded Kuwait.
 
Well, at least another pretense would have had to be engineered to
implement the ZoG agenda.
 
> I was there, in a Bradley,
 
Next time, try under a Bradley.
 
> and we could have rolled all over Baghdad, especially after what the
> Iraqi bastards did to the Kuwaitis, but it wasn't done. Unfortunately
> Saddam Hussein stayed in power.  There will not be a shred of a
> chance for peace in that region until he is DEAD.
 
Right.  Let's kill the only secular leader of the only secular
government in a region full of religious fruitcakes that either
believe that God has awarded them other peoples land in the Bible, or
that lopping off body parts is the appropriate punishment for
criticizing nonsense.  I didn't see Sadaam Hussein issuing any death
sentences against Salmon Rushdie.
 
> I don't think air strikes are the answer to this, and I think Clinton
> is a moron for his present policy, War is the worst thing that man can
> do to other men, and there is no such thing as "the good fight"... war
> is hell. Period.  Until you have been in a war, you have no idea of
> what you are talking about.
 
It's interesting that the nation that engaged in continuous national
nonstop whining over the kids in the exploding federal building
daycare center commits such crimes at the drop of a hat in other
countries, merely to send some ambiguous foreign policy message.
 
> But if you think that Iraq was "more right" or better yet, "less
> wrong", you need a radical lobotomy, or perhaps you've already had
> one.
 
I would be more than happy to put Sadaam in charge of Israel, Iran,
Saudi Arabia, and the UAE.  You know, Iraq is a multicultural nation.
It even has a Jewish communuity.  That's why "secular" is always
better than a religious state stuffing organized superstition and
paternalistic Sky-God fairy tales down the throats of its subjects.
 
> Evidently, you again know nothing of what the Iraqis did to the
> Kuwaitis on their way in to Kuwait.  Get educated, shithead.
 
So the fact that Iraqis may have mistreated Kuwaitis justifies George
Bush's order to destroy "everything that moves" on the only path out
of the impending American invasion, including civilians fleeing for
their lives with children in carseats?  That's the kind of logic I'd
expect from a professional babykiller.
 
> You sound like nothing more than disillusioned, spoiled, pompous
> asshole when you presume to know what Americans "understand".  Your
> anarchistic ravings only mark you for the idiot you are.
 
If you'd get your commanding officers cock out of your ass, and stop
listening to the propaganda they feed you, then maybe you would be
worthy of further discussion.
 
You have the choice to not join an army that commits atrocities on
foreign soil, and to refuse orders which conflict with whatever
remaining conscience you have.  If you join, and you go over there,
and you kill people, then you are no better than any other murderer.
 
Middle Eastern affairs pose no threat to the Constitution of the
United States, which is, after all, the only thing you are empowered
to defend by shooting at others.
 
> To everyone else besides Cordian who reads this, my apologies, but
> for all it's failings, I still have pride in America... ...not for
> all the foreign policy bullshit or the way the government fucks us
> over, or starts wars, or sticks their collective nose in other
> countries business...but for the fact that as a whole people,
> Americans still keep trying, everyday, to be a better people. I'm
> proud of that.
 
America needs a low-level format.  Soon.

-- 
Eric Michael Cordian 0+
O:.T:.O:. Mathematical Munitions Division
"Do What Thou Wilt Shall Be The Whole Of The Law"
 





