From: "Toto" <toto@sk.sympatico.ca>
Date: Wed, 1 Apr 1998 12:23:47 -0800 (PST)
To: "CypherPunks" <cypherpunks@toad.com>
Subject: Practicing for 'saving' America?
Message-ID: <027901bd5dbc$8fcaa860$7679a58e@uymfdlvk>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



   They had bodies. Bodies of these men's brothers, crew members from the
helicopter or Delta soldiers, it was hard to tell from the angles and
distances of the camera shots. They were dragging a body through the street
at the end of a rope, kicking and poking at the lifeless form. It was ugly
and savage, and the men went back out to the hangar and cleaned their
weapons and waited for orders that would send them back out.

   Delta Sgt. Paul Howe was ready. If he was going back out, he was going to
kill as many Somalis as he could. He'd had enough. No more rules of
engagement, no more toeing some abstract moral line. He was going to cut a
gruesome path through these people.
http://www3.phillynews.com/packages/somalia/dec12/default12.asp

And what happens if we, as citizens, resist the assault of minimally trained
local and regional law enforcement agencies operating with massive firepower
donated to them by the federal government, and acting under the direction of
local government figures who have personal agendas and local political axes
to grind?
We have already seen the future of law enforcement in the travesties that
have already occurred in our cites and towns as a result of the mythical War
On Drugs. There is a remarkable parallel in our sending troops into both
Somolian and American cities to 'protect the people' from WarLords and
DrugLords. In both cases, the Lords die of old age while our self-proclaimed
protectors "cut a gruesome path" through the Peasants.

In the early 80's, as I watched the helicopters touch down in the
Ettersburg, California schoolyard and heavily armed men in camoflage piling
out in full view of the children, I had an uneasy feeling that what I was
observing went far beyond the stated objective of CAMP (Campaign Against
Marihuana Production).
After observing the armed assault against mostly happy-hippies living in the
hills for some period of time, I eventually realized that the true objective
of CAMP was to promote cooperation and interagency comradship between federa
l, state and local law enforcement groups.
The local yokel volunteers from various law enforcement agencies got to play
with the Big Boys, and with the Big Boys Toys, and use the cover of legality
to become fully immersed in the mentality needed for an unquestioning
assault on the populace.

Why pass better laws when you can just arm your enforcers with heavier
weaponry, instead?

Why provide true justice when you can just make everything a felony and
plead it down, instead?

Why bother telling 'good' lies when the Herdizens have become so numbed to
the lies and thievery of their rulers that 'bad' lies will suffice?

Why bother pretending that there will be jacuzzis waiting at the end of the
ride in the cattle-car when the Sheeple are passively being herded into them
by the strength of an established culture of oppression?

Why bother claiming that you 'only want Austria'...

~~~~
Toto  <toto@sk.sympatico.ca>
~~~~






