From: "Netscape AOL Instant Messenger" <register@oreg-r01.web.aol.com>
Date: Wed, 25 Nov 1998 23:54:29 +0800
To: <cypherpunks@toad.com>
Subject: Welcome to Netscape AOL Instant Messenger (AIM)!
Message-ID: <365C4502@oreg-r01.web.aol.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Welcome to Netscape AOL Instant Messenger!

Thank you for confirming your Netscape AOL Instant Messenger
account.  We're glad you've joined the fastest growing Internet
online community in the world.

To help maintain an online environment that you feel comfortable
with, you can set your own buddy controls.  You can decide who can
see if you're online as well as who can and can't get in touch
with you while online.

For your convenience, your controls have been initially set to allow
other users to contact you online if they know either your e-mail
address or your screen name.  You may change your buddy controls
any time when signed on to Netscape AOL Instant Messenger by doing
the following:

  (On Windows):
    1) Click on the "Netscape AOL Instant Messenger" button
       and select "Options"
    2) Select "Edit Preferences"
    3) Click on the "Controls" tab

By entering the screennames of people for whom you would like to
set special control settings (e.g., "block" the following users
from contacting me or "allow" the following users to contact me) -
you can maintain an online environment that is comfortable for you.
In the future, you can change your settings by returning to the
"Controls" area.

Thanks for joining Netscape AOL Instant Messenger!  Now you can
instantly chat with your AOL and Internet friends with real-time
text messages!  You can even add your Internet friends to your
Buddy List group.  It's easy and it's FREE!

Remember, to communicate instantly with friends on Internet, they
have to register for Netscape AOL Instant Messenger too.  Invite
your friends to register by sending them a personalized invitation!
Sending an invitation encouraging your friends to join is quick and
convenient.  All you have to do is the following:

    1.  Sign on to Netscape AOL Instant Messenger.
    2.  Click the "Netscape AOL Instant Messenger" button and
        select "Sign On A Friend."
    3.  Enter the e-mail addresses of your friends and co-workers.
We'll send them an invitation -- personalized by you -- inviting
them to join the Netscape AOL Instant Messenger service.

For help and additional information, please visit our website
http://www.netscape.com.
For quick tips on getting started with Netscape AOL Instant Messenger,
see the information below.  See you in cyberspace!

-------------------------------------------
Quick Tips on Getting Started
-------------------------------------------

Signing On to Netscape AOL Instant Messenger

Once you've registered, downloaded, and installed Netscape AOL Instant
Messenger, you're ready to start using it.  Here's what you need to do
to sign on (the following instructions apply to Windows 95/NT):

     1.  First, make sure that you're connected to the Internet
         via your Internet Service Provider, school, or office network.
     2.  Launch Netscape AOL Instant Messenger by double-clicking the
         AOL Instant Messenger program icon. (If you aren't sure how to
         locate Netscape AOL Instant Messenger, click the Start menu and
         then select Programs.  From Programs, select AOL Instant Messenger
         and then the AOL Instant Messenger program icon.)
     3.  When you see the "Sign On" window, type or select the
         screen name and password you chose during registration
         in the space provided and click the "Sign On" button.
     4.  Netscape AOL Instant Messenger will then sign you on.

Setting Up Your Buddy List

Once signed on, you'll see the main Netscape AOL Instant Messenger
window which contains two tabs: a box with names in it, and a row
of buttons at the  bottom.  This box is your Buddy List window,
and it shows you the screen names of your buddies online. Your
Buddy List window will have three sample groups that you can use
to begin organizing your buddies: 1) Buddies; 2) Family, and
3) Co-Workers.  (You can change the names of these groups by
highlighting the group name and typing over it - or just add new
ones.)

Personalize your Buddy List by adding your friends' screen names.
To add a new buddy, click on the "List Setup" tab, click the
"Add Buddy" button, and type a friend's screen name.  Do this for
each buddy you want to add. To add a new group, click the
"Add Group" button, and type the name of the new group (like
"soccer team").  Once you've added your buddies, click the
"Online" tab.

If you can't remember someone's screen name, use the "Find a Buddy"
function to first see if the person is a registered Netscape AOL
Instant Messenger ser or not.  If the person is a registered user,
you can look up his or her screen name here.

Sending Your Buddy an Instant Message

When you see a buddy's name in your Buddy List, it means the person
is online and that you can send your buddy an Instant Message (which
is a private, personalized, text message).

There are two ways to send an Instant Message:

    1) Double-click on your buddy's screen name, and a
       "Send Instant Message" window will appear. Type
       your message in the bottom part of the window, and
       click "Send."  Or,

    2) Highlight your buddy's screen name and click on the
       "IM" button. (If your buddy's screen name is not on your
       Buddy List group, then click on the "IM" button and type
       in his or her screen name and a message.)

Either way, after clicking the "Send" button, your message will
"pop up" on your buddy's computer screen.  Then your buddy can send
messages back to you for an instant, private, one-to-one chat.





