From: Ray Hirschfeld <R.Hirschfeld@cwi.nl>
Date: Thu, 20 Aug 1998 23:39:43 -0700 (PDT)
To: R.Hirschfeld@cwi.nl
Subject: FC99 Preliminary Announcement
Message-ID: <UTC199808201717.TAA24813.ray@vanity.cwi.nl>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Financial Cryptography '99
February 22-25, 1999, Anguilla, BWI
Preliminary Announcement

FC99, the third international conference on financial data security
and digital commerce, will be held in Anguilla, British West Indies.
FC99 aims to bring together persons involved in both the financial and
data security fields to foster cooperation and exchange of ideas.  It
is organized by the International Financial Cryptography Association
(IFCA).

The conference program features regular sessions for refereed papers,
invited talks, panel discussions, and a rump session, covering all
aspects of financial cryptography.  Proceedings of the conference will
be published by Springer-Verlag in their Lecture Notes in Computer
Science (LNCS) series.


INVITED SPEAKER

Prof. Adi Shamir  (Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, Israel)


CONFERENCE VENUE

The conference will be held at Chandeliers, the conference facility of
the InterIsland Hotel, which is centrally located on the island of
Anguilla.


REGISTRATION

For early planning purposes, those wishing to participate in the
conference are requested to register as soon as possible.
Registration can be done via the web at URL http://fc99.ai/.  The fee
for the conference, which covers all conference materials and events
(including preproceedings, final proceedings, attendance at scientific
sessions, and breakfast and lunch each day of the conference), is:

$850 regular registration
$350 academic registration
$150 student registration

An additional $50 fee applies to registrations for which payment is
received after January 1, 1999.

A $100 discount ($50 for academic and student registrations) is
available to participants who pay their registration fee by electronic
money (e.g., DigiCash ecash, NetCash, CyberCash, etc.).  See the web
page for details.

Payment may be made by credit card, bank transfer, electronic money,
or cash.


STIPENDS

A limited number of stipends to help defray the costs of attendance
may be available to full-time students with a paper accepted for
presentation at the conference.  If you would like to apply for a
stipend, please contact the General Chair at the email address listed
below.


WORKSHOP

A workshop, intended for anyone with commercial software development
experience who wants hands-on familiarity with the issues and
technology of financial cryptography, is planned in conjunction with
FC99.  For details, contact Ian Goldberg (iang@cs.berkeley.edu).


HOTEL ACCOMODATION

The conference hotel is not recommended except to those seeking budget
accomodations.  The recommended hotel is Mariners, where a block
reservation has been made.  To reserve a room, please call the hotel
at +1 (809) 497-2671 and mention that you will be attending FC99.
Information about other hotels is available at URL http://fc99.ai.


WELCOME RECEPTION

A welcome reception will be held on Monday, February 22, 1999, the
evening of the first day of the conference.


GENERAL INFORMATION

Visas

Visas are not required for citizens of most American and European
countries.  If you are uncertain about whether you need a visa,
contact the local British consulate for information.

Getting to Anguilla

>From North America, Anguilla is usually reached via San Juan (Puerto
Rico).  From Europe, the best connections are via
St. Maarten/St. Martin (from Amsterdam or Paris), or Antigua (from
London).  St. Martin is very close to Anguilla and is connected by
ferry as well as by plane.

Local Transportation

The simplest way to get around Anguilla is to rent a car.  You will
need to buy an Anguilla drivers license, but this is a formality.
Taxis are also available.  Another possibility is to hitch rides from
local residents, who are eager to provide them and will often stop to
offer rides unsolicited.  Transportation will be provided at specific
times between Mariners and the InterIsland hotel.

Weather

Expect temperatures in the 20's or 30's Celsius, 70's or 80's
Fahrenheit.  There is often a strong wind, with cloudbursts that
quickly blow over.  Dress code for the conference is shorts and
T-shirt.

Money

The local currency is the Eastern Caribbean dollar (EC$), with an
exchange rate of approximately EC$2.7/US$1, but many goods and
services in Anguilla, particularly those aimed primarily at tourists
(such as restaurants and hotels) are priced in US dollars.


PROGRAM COMMITTEE

Joan Feigenbaum, AT&T Labs
Yair Frankel, CertCo
Matthew Franklin, Xerox PARC
David Goldschlag, Divx
Markus Jakobsson, Bell Labs
Ari Juels, RSA Labs
Arjen Lenstra, Citibank
Cliff Neuman, USC
Berry Schoenmakers, Digicash
Jacques Stern, ENS
Yacov Yacobi, Microsoft
Bennet Yee, UCSD

Program Chair:
Matthew Franklin        
email: franklin@parc.xerox.com

A Call for Papers with information about submitting papers and
deadlines for submissions can be found on the web at URL
http://www.rsa.com/rsalabs/fc99.


ORGANIZING COMMITTEE

General Chair:
Rafael Hirschfeld
email: unipay@xs4all.nl

Local Arrangements Chair:
Vincent Cate
email: vince@offshore.com.ai

For further information, please see the main FC99 conference web page
at URL http://fc99.ai/.


SPONSORS

FC99 is sponsored by:

nCipher Corporation <http://www.ncipher.com>
Hansa Bank & Trust Company <http://www.hansa.net/>
Offshore Information Services <http://offshore.com.ai/>

If you are interested in sponsoring FC99, please contact the General
Chair at the email address listed above.




