From: Email Ad: <wwwnet65@mailexcite.com>
Date: Sun, 8 Nov 1998 07:41:19 -0800 (PST)
To: @
Subject: Advertise to Millions On-Line...New WWW Marketing Package
Message-ID: <199811081541.HAA29750@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


To automatically be removed from all
future mailings please reply with 
"Remove" in the subject heading.
-----------------------------------------



Keep reading to find out how you can...Reach 
MILLIONS of potential Customers Overnight!

THOUSANDS of companies are sending out Bulk 
Email to dramatically maximize their profits!

Why aren't YOU?

Despite what you've heard...BULK EMAIL WORKS!

If Bulk Email didn't work, THEN YOU WOULDN'T 
BE READING THIS!

===> Even FORTUNE 500 companies send out 
Bulk Email to Hundreds of Thousands of 
people every single day.

===> Power Promotions, an Internet Marketing 
Company, claims to be making over $500,000
every single year in Bulk Email alone!

===>Many webmasters draw THOUSANDS of NEW 
visitors to their sites DAILY!

===>You don't even need a web site to take 
advantage of Bulk Email!

===>You can generate an endless amount of 
quality leads for ANY business opportunity 
or MLM.

===>You can save $$$ doing your own mailings 
with the latest Bulk Email software!



When you receive a Bulk Email advertisement, do 
you realize that HUNDREDS of THOUSANDS of PEOPLE 
from all over the world received that same Bulk 
Email advertisement?  

Could your business benefit from such a dramatic 
increase in exposure?

Here's what a respected national newspaper said 
regarding the use of Bulk Email:

"Many business people are finding out that they
can now advertise in ways that they never could 
have afforded in the past. The cost of sending 
mass e-mail is extremely low, and the response 
rate is high and quick." - USA TODAY

Let's keep in mind that the only expense involved 
with using Bulk Email is:

1. Purchasing Bulk Email Software
2. An Internet Connection ($19.95 A Month or Less)

Email is FREE...whether you send 100 or 1 million.  
It is by far the FASTEST and LEAST EXPENSIVE way 
to generate large volumes of sales in a short 
period of time.

Comparison of Bulk Email vs Conventional Forms 
of Advertising:

=> A Bulk Mailing to 250,000 People through 
the Postal Service will cost you about $125,000.

=> A Web Site Banner Advertisement to 250,000  
People on the Internet will cost you about $2,500.

=> A Bulk Emailing to 250,000  People on the 
Internet will cost you NOTHING. 

DO YOU HAVE A WEB SITE?If so, you probably spend 
THOUSANDS of DOLLARS and HOURS advertising your 
web site on:

* Newsgroups
* Search Engines
* On-line Classifieds
* Banner Advertisements
* Link Exchanges

And still, you only receive a few thousand hits
 per day.

A) A previous web site of ours that opened on 
June 23rd, 1997 had a total of 1600 visitors.

B) We sent out a Bulk Email Advertisement for 
our web site to 200,000 people that same day.

C) By the next morning our counter indicated 
that we had received 12,763 Hits in LESS THAN 
24 HOURS!

You can expect the SAME, if not BETTER results
when advertising YOUR web site to MILLIONS of 
people through Bulk Email, and using our 
techniques and software you will NOT risk 
losing your ISP or web host account.

DO PEOPLE ACTUALLY BUY ANYTHING FROM THE I
INTERNET?

A recent survey by Survey Net on the purchasing 
habits of internet users, indicates that 50% 
of people have purchased something from the
Internet, 40% of people have made several 
purchases from the Internet 80% of people 
like the idea of shopping on a computer, 50% 
of on-line purchases are computer/information 
related ,20% of people have purchased from 
the Internet for the reason: 

"I came across it and I liked it, so I 
bought it."

But how can they buy from you if they don't know
you exist? Until now there has never been such 
a dramatically COST-FREE method of advertising.
Now that you have seen how Bulk Email can 
DRAMATICALLY maximize your business profits, you 
may be wondering... HOW DO I SEND OUT BULK EMAIL?? 

The most obvious solution is to purchase bulk email
software ranging in price from $200 - $399 that will
allow you to send your ad to email addresses you collect.


A better solution would be to order our "Bulk Email
Secrets" package that will provide you with EVERYTHING
you need to begin bulk emailing with great results 
immediately!

You Get:

#1..Bulk Email Software

We'll show you where to get:

Desktop Server 98 - (A powerful bulk emailer that actually sends
email through YOUR computer, not your ISP!)

Rapid Fire Mail Server - (A FAST bulk emailer similar to Desktop 
Server 98. Run both simultaneously for rocket fast mailings!)

Atomic Harvester - (An email address locator that will log on to 
the WWW and collect targeted lists of email addresses!)

List Manager - (An email list database manager. Lots of features. No
bulk emailer should be without this one!)


The above software titles sell for $199-$299 anywhere else, but 
they're yours free as part of this incredible new internet marketing
package!


You'll also get a copy of "Bulk Email Success Secrets" 
which will reveal to you all the insider information needed for
success using bulk email.  Bulk Email can bring AWESOME results
but ONLY if you have the right information.

Some topics covered include:

<Bulk Email Laws&Regulations>
YES, Bulk Email Is 100% Legal if you 
follow a few simple guidelines.

<Bulk Email Response Handling Techniques>
You'll learn how to easily and AUTOMATICALLY 
set your computer up to filter and respond 
to ALL your incoming email! Put your business
on Auto-Pilot!

<Keeping Your ISP & Web Host Account Safe>
Finally PROVEN and SIMPLE ways to bulk email 
as much as you want and NOT lose your good 
standing with your web host/ISP. Learn how to 
use Free Email Accounts and Free Auto responders
with your bulk email advertising.

<Writing Effective E-Ads>
Over 10 pages containing tips on writing 
order pulling email ads. Actual examples 
included!

<Best Selling Items On-Line>
Have you ever wondered what REALLY sells on-line?
The right product and advertising will make you money.
We list the HOTTEST selling items on-line (you'll 
be AMAZED at the profit margins of these products)!


Plus Much More Insider Information!

A constant supply of FRESH, DELIVERABLE, TARGETED
email addresses is one secret to getting great 
results with bulk email. 


With your order you'll also receive via email 100,000 
email addresses EVERY SINGLE WEEK FOR ONE FULL YEAR!

The addresses will be filtered through a global remove
list and all .edu, .mil, .gov and other undesirable
domains will be automatically removed.


Here are ACTUAL TESTIMONIALS of current club 
members:

"I have been able to make $3175 by promoting 
my company through direct email. This is
only from sending out to about 12,000 people 
and selling a product which costs $25. This 
is more than I had expected."
RICHARD SCHOTT - Pasadena, CA

"Within 10 days I was able to collect over 
100,000 email addresses and make a profit of
$4,000." MATT ALLEN - Omaha, NE

"I recently started a new business on line. 
After my first mailing I got over 400 people 
to join my company in 5 days!" 
DAVID SHEENHAM - Dallas, TX

"I previously purchased bulk email software 
and collected 20,000 new addresses a week if I
was lucky. The first mailing I did I lost my ISP
and Web Host account. The information I get from
this unique club has helped me reach HUNDREDS of
people via email on a regular basis and I've kept
my primary ISP with no cancellation."
Michael Logan - Kansas City, KS

You can order our "Bulk Email Secrets" 
for only $149.00. 


FREE BONUS GIFTS IF YOU ORDER BEFORE NOVEMBER 25TH...

300 Small Business Reports/Internet Marketing Guides
(Give them away free as incentives for your customers or
sell them for profits!)

Check Acceptance Software
(Would you like to accept checks by phone or fax? This software
will allow you to do just that! Your sales will increase by 
offering this easy to use service.)


If you've ever contemplated using bulk email to promote your 
service/product then this is the ONLY offer you should take
advantage of! You will not find a better value for your 
money anywhere else. 

More importantly than the software itself is the wealth of
information you'll get regarding bulk email and internet marketing
in general. We reveal to you PROVEN techniques. We have been 
bulk emailing for years promoting our own services and can show
you how to generate a high volume of sales in a short period of
time.



If you have any questions at all or would 
like additional information please email us 
at:

sendinfo@mailcity.com


We also provide full service Bulk Email
Broadcasting.  We'll do the mailings for you and
forward all responses to you on the daily basis.

For rates and info please
email us at sendinfo@mailcity.com


Thank You for Your Time.





