From: emailking.associates@cwix.com
Date: Wed, 30 Sep 1998 08:41:59 +0800
To: <cypherpunks@einstein.ssz.com>
Subject: advertisement
Message-ID: <199809301343.IAA11432@einstein.ssz.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



This Message was Composed using Extractor Pro '98 Bulk E- Mail 
Software. If 
you wish to be removed from this advertiser's future mailings, 
please reply 
with the subject "Remove" and this software will automatically 
block you 
from their future mailings.

The person who chooses to try something and fails is a far 
greater person than the person
who chooses to try nothing and succeeds!

The difference between the successful person and the unsuccessful 
person is that the successful 
person is willing to do that which the unsuccessful person is 
not!

If you are looking to dable or window shop, this is not for you. 
Please do not respond to this message
 unless you know you have what it takes and you are truly willing 
to put in the effort to become
 successful. This Business Opportunity is for the person who is 
serious about making money, 
controling their schedule, reducing their tax liability and 
becoming financially independent!

Believe it or not the majority of people are not truly committed 
to making the financial and time 
committment it takes to achieve financial independence.  The 
question is.... are you?

If you are, you will never find a business opportunity that 
offers such a high return on your time and 
dollar investment, than we are offering here.


No Risk Guarantee!      -     Prospects Call You!

Not MLM!          Honest, Ethical Business!

See why heavy hitters are leaving there Multi-level programs 
forever.

With DESIRE & EFFORT.... YOU ABSOLUTELY CANNOT FAIL!

$8,000 - $10,000 first 4 to 8 weeks!

All you need is a telephone,  fax machine and the passion to 
succeed.

Would you take 2 minutes to find out how! CALL NOW!!!

1-800-781-7046 ext.6053
Only serious inquiries please.

I have been involved in this business for only 5 weeks and I 
cannot believe the income! I am this 
coming week ending a twenty year career.  My wife and family love 
it. They will see me more than 
ever. I've been in several MLM's and experienced moderate 
success. This is not MLM. It is a 
legitamate turn-key business with an outstanding product, 
unbelievable compensation structure, lead 
generation system and I have all the qualified leads than I can 
contact every week! The support and
 training are fantastic!
 
You owe it to yourself and your family to check it out.
Sincerely,
Jim

1-800-781-7046 ext.6053

If you do not wish to receive this message hit "reply" and type 
"remove" in the subject line and you
will atomatically be removed from future mailings. Sorry if this 
was an inconvenience to you.





to be removed type "remove" in the subject header and e mail back 
emailking.associates@cwix.com

sent e mail king and associates
1790 bonhill rd
mississauga on
l5t 1e1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




