From: Mia Westerholm <Mia.Westerholm@DataFellows.com>
Date: Tue, 17 Mar 1998 07:12:30 -0800 (PST)
To: Crypto-Press-Global@DataFellows.com
Subject: Data Fellows Lauches New Version of the Famous F-Secure SSH Products
Message-ID: <3.0.2.32.19980317160523.00c5fa18@smtp.DataFellows.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Data Fellows Ltd.  Media Release

For immediate release
17 March 1998

DATA FELLOWS LAUNCHES NEW VERSIONS OF THE FAMOUS 
F-SECURE SSH PRODUCTS

The improved F-Secure SSH product family is a unique tool for secure remote
systems administration

ESPOO, FINLAND --- Data Fellows, a leading provider of Internet security
solutions, has launched new versions of its famous F-Secure SSH products.

F-Secure SSH Tunnel&Terminal and F-Secure SSH Server protect TCP/IP-based
terminal connections in UNIX, Windows and Macintosh environments. They
enable remote systems administrators and telecommuters to access corporate
networks via any Internet Service Provider without revealing system
passwords and other secrets to possible eavesdroppers.

"In addition to providing secure login connections, F-Secure SSH Server
secures all remote systems administration tasks by providing secure tools
to replace the existing rsh, rlogin, rcp, rdist and telnet protocols," says
Mr. Olli Voima, Product Development Manager of F-Secure SSH.  "As a new
feature, the secure file transfer application offers an easy-to-use
graphical interface for the safe transfer of files."

F-Secure SSH Tunnel&Terminal and F-Secure SSH Server support the forwarding
of TCP/IP services like pop, smtp (used by e-mail software), http (used by
Web browsers), etc., or almost any other TCP/IP-based service.  The local
proxy server in F-Secure SSH Tunnel&Terminal listens for a socket on the
desired port and forwards the request and data over the secure channel.  It
then instructs the F-Secure SSH Server to make the connection to the
specified service on the remote machine. Automatic forwarding of the X11
Windowing System secures graphical applications.

F-Secure SSH products are based on the SSH protocol, an application level
security mechanism used in conjunction with Internet protocols.

"The SSH protocol is the most widely audited and standardized security
protocol in the world," says Mr. Voima. "Its strong end-user authentication
and encryption leave no room for security compromises. As a European
company, Data Fellows is not restricted by the US export regulations, and
has thus been able to make strong encryption available worldwide. F-Secure
SSH host authentication is based on 1024-bit RSA keys, and the secure
connections use 128-bit session keys."

In addition to being strongly secured, the F-Secure SSH products are easy
to use.  The single sign-on technology makes the handling of multiple
terminal sessions simple. 

Says Mr. Voima:  "Easy-to-use and strongly secured, F-Secure SSH is a truly
unique security solution for remote systems administration."

About Data Fellows:

Data Fellows is one of the world's leading developers of data security
products with offices in San Jose, California and Espoo, Finland. Its
groundbreaking 
F-Secure product family is a unique combination of globally available,
strong encryption and revolutionary anti-virus software.  The integrated
F-Secure product range provides a complete security solution for
enterprises, and includes file encryption and IPSec communication
encryption products, VPN gateways, SSH based secure remote management
software, and a full range of anti-virus products to workstations, servers
and gateways.  Data Fellows is also the developer of the award winning
F-PROT Professional anti-virus, now part of the dual scanning engine
concept of F-Secure Anti-Virus.   

Data Fellows is privately owned.  Since it was founded in 1988, its annual
net growth of net sales has been over 80%.  Data Fellows offers a worldwide
network of technical support, training and distribution in over 70 countries. 
Data Fellows belongs to an elite group of companies that have a triple-A
rating from Dun&Bradstreet.

For further information, please contact:

Mr. Olli Voima, Product Development Manager
Tel. +358 9 859 900, Fax. +358 9 8599 0599
E-Mail:  Olli.Voima@DataFellows.com

or  visit out website at
http:// www.DataFellows.com

ALSO, VISIT OUT BOOTH AT CEBIT98 (HALL 3, STAND B46)


Mia.Westerholm@DataFellows.com 
http://www.DataFellows.com

Data Fellows Ltd.
PL 24
FIN-02231 ESPOO, FINLAND
Tel. +358 9 859 900
Fax. +358 9 8599 0599




