From: mfc@daltek.net
Date: Sun, 15 Feb 1998 02:21:19 -0800 (PST)
To: mfc@daltek.net
Subject: Can't Find Your Site?
Message-ID: <199802151002.FAA02448@apollo.redcomet.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


* * * * 
 You have been carefully selected to receive the following as a 
 person obviously interested in this subject based upon your 
 previous internet postings, or visits to one of our affiliate web 
 sites.  If you have received this message in error, please accept 
 our apology as a responsible e-mailer, and reply with the word 
 REMOVE in the subject line. You will be automatically excluded 
 from future e-mailings. Thank you for your consideration and help 
 in making the Internet spam-free. 
***** 
Does anyone really know where your site is? Can you be found
on the top search engines? Go to http://guide-p.infoseek.com/
and type in your business type and your geographical location. 
Do you show up in the top ten listings? If not, potential clients 
will never find you.

We can guarantee that you get listed in the top ten. 
We can get you listed in the top ten on all the major search
engines. But right now we are offering a "get to know us
discount" on Infoseek. Infoseek was visited by 11.7 million users 
in January of 1998. We have chosen infoseek for this special offer
based on its popularity and the fact that it immediately inputs 
sites into its database. We will GUARANTEE a top ten ranking within 
7 days!! 

Millions of potential clients search for businesses on Infoseek
each month. How many clients have you already lost? How much money
have you spent on your website with no return? Your website is
literally (and financially) dying to be seen.

We usually charge $300 for a guaranteed top twenty ranking. Through
March 1st we are only charging $150 and we will GUARANTEE A TOP
TEN RANKING based on your business type and your geographic
location!!

To contact us call (603)773-5904 or reply to this email with 
a phone number. You may also reply to this email with "Make us 
visible" in the subject line for more information.







