From: Marita Näsman-Repo <Marita.Nasman-Repo@DataFellows.com>
Date: Tue, 17 Nov 1998 05:01:08 -0800 (PST)
To: F-Secure-Press-Global@DataFellows.com
Subject: MEDIA RELEASE: Data Fellows and Nokia Announce New OEM Agreement
Message-ID: <3.0.32.19981117145845.00b6d100@smtp.datafellows.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Media Release			For immediate release

Data Fellows and Nokia Announce New OEM Agreement

Data Fellows' F-Secure SSH Client and Server To be Bundled in Three Nokia
Router Product Lines 

Espoo, Finland, November 12, 1998 -- Data Fellows, the global leader in
data security software and Nokia have signed OEM bundling agreement. Under
the terms of the agreement, Nokia will bundle F-Secure SSH Server and
F-Secure SSH Client software in each unit of various Nokia routing
products: the Nokia IP400 family of router/firewall products, the Nokia
VPN200 series, and the Check Point VPN-1 RemoteLink line versions of these
products sold through various VAR (Value Added Reseller) channels. 

F-Secure SSH Client provides Windows, Macintosh and all Unix users with
secure connections over the Internet and other untrusted networks to
corporate resources running F-Secure SSH Server -- in this case, the Nokia
firewall/router products. F-Secure SSH provides proven, ICSA-certified
end-to-end security between the client workstation and the Nokia
router/firewall unit, or any other server running the software. The
software offers strong authentication and encryption based on industry
standard algorithms such as 3DES, IDEA and Blowfish, as well as data
privacy for all data transmission. All data, including the initial user ID
and password, exchanged between the Client and Server flows transparently
through an encrypted tunnel.

The new OEM agreement is the second between Nokia Telecommunications and
Data Fellows. The VPN200 series enables a company of any size to set up
network connections to all plant sites, using maximum-security standards.
Both product families are compatible, enabling simultaneous management and
control.

"F-Secure SSH has become de facto standard for secure remote
administration, maintenance and management of crucial corporate resources
such as firewalls, routers, switches, web servers and mail gateways," says
Petri Laakkonen, president of Data Fellows Inc. "By bundling the software
with leading router/firewall solutions, Nokia and Data Fellows will make
remote maintenance and administration of mission-critical network resources
much more secure, affordable and easier to adapt even to most distributed
global organizations."

"This co-operation will strengthen Nokia's security solutions. Our products
are in use for data applications where security is of the utmost
importance. We are pleased to be able to offer our customers one of the
most advanced, secure range of Firewall systems on the market," says Brian
NeSmith, Vice President, Nokia IPRG.

With offices in San Jose, CA, and Espoo, Finland, privately-owned Data
Fellows is the leading technology provider of data security solutions for
enterprise networks. The company's F-Secure data security product line
includes F-Secure Workstation Suite, consisting of malicious code detection
and removal, unobtrusive file and network encryption, and personal firewall
functionality, all integrated into a policy-based, centralized management
architecture; F-Secure Anti-Virus, with multiple scanning engines
(including F-PROT and AVP), is the most comprehensive, real-time virus
scanning and protection system for all Windows platforms; F-Secure VPN+
provides a software-based, IPSec-compliant Virtual Private Network solution
for large corporate networks as well as remote and small office networks;
F-Secure FileCrypto, the first and only product to integrate strong
real-time encryption directly into the Windows file system; F-Secure SSH,
providing secure remote login, terminal, and other connections over
unsecured networks (it is the most widely used secure remote administration
tool); and F-Secure NameSurfer for remote Internet and Intranet DNS
administration, with an easy-to-use WWW user interface that automates and
simplifies DNS administration.

Nokia is the world's leading mobile phone supplier and a leading supplier
of mobile and fixed telecom networks including related customer services.
Nokia also supplies solutions and products for fixed and wireless datacom,
as well as multimedia terminals and computer monitors. In 1997, net sales
totaled FIM 52.6 billion ($ 9.8 billion). Headquartered in Finland, Nokia
is listed on five European Stock Exchanges and on the New York Stock
Exchange (NOK.A), has sales in 130 countries and employs more than 42,000
people world-wide.

For more information, contact
Data Fellows Inc
Petri Laakkonen
675 North First Street, 8th floor
San Jose, CA 95112
tel 408-938-6700
fax 408-938-6701
Petri.Laakkonen @datafellows.com
http://www.DataFellows.com    or
info@datafellows.com.

Ms Arja Suominen, Vice President, Communications
Nokia Telecommunications 
Tel: (Int.) + 358 9 5113 8193 
Fax: (Int.) + 358 9 5113 8199
http://www.nokia.com
http://www.iprg.nokia.com 
 

--
Marita.Nasman-Repo@DataFellows.com, 
World-Wide Web http://www.DataFellows.com





