From: Jim Burnes <jim.burnes@ssds.com>
Date: Fri, 20 Feb 1998 04:07:12 +0800
To: Tim May <tcmay@got.net>
Subject: Re: PLO censoring pro-Iraqi sentiments
In-Reply-To: <v03102801b112264ccf41@[207.167.93.63]>
Message-ID: <34EC8F2A.7DECFD4B@ssds.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Tim May wrote:
> No doubt Madelyn Albright, William Cohen, and Sandy Berger would love to
> have had such press controls yesterday in Columbus, Ohio, when their
> policies were booed and heckled, and when the questions asked were the
> common sense questions many of us are asking.....
> 

Art Bell's radio show had a very interesting interview with a
correspondent who was at the "town hall meeting".  As bad as the
footage from Nightline (donated by CNN) looked, most people
don't know what CNN didn't show.

The damage control geeks at the white house are trying to get
you to believe it was just a vocal minority.  Well apparently
the minority was somewhere between 20 and 50 people.  A pretty
healthy minority.  Healthy enough that, during the break, a riot
almost broke out.  (The whole audience clapped when the 
non-minorities questioners threw some very hardball questions)

What I found interesting was the late night ABC news spin.  They
said a vocal minority had behave rudely, then went on to mention
that a veteran was in favor of doing whatever it took.  What the
veteran really said was something like, "we shouldn't be over there
unless we do it right and take over." (he was pretty angry too)

Then more interesting propaganda during Nightline when Koeppel
asked Albright et al why we should bomb Iraq for "having weapons
of mass destruction" when we never bombed Russia during the
cold war.  The secretary of defense lied through his teeth
(or is totally ignorant - a possibility) when he said that
none of those countries has ever used its weapons of mass
destruction.  I guess he forgot about the Soviets and their
yellow rain campaign in Afganistan.

Maybe what he meant to say was they never used it on us.
Niether have the Koreans.  Niether have the Israelis.
(what weapons of mass destruction did Iraq use on us?
I thought it was the other way around.  I'm trying to
remember where I read the report, but I think the US
used Fuel Air Explosives in the PGWar)

Wag the Dog....

jim burnes





