From: avatar@yahoo.com
Date: Sun, 9 Aug 1998 18:33:41 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Send Your Own Mass E-Mail..Learn How
Message-ID: <199808100129.SAA21378@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


You can profit from junk e-mail. If your computer is sitting idle while you're at work or play...you're crazy! 
You could be earning money while you're asleep, at work or out having fun. You can make incredible 
money sending your own mass e-mails. If you own your own business or have a product or idea to sell , 
then you probably know that all advertising works..it's just a question of whether it's cost effective or not. 
What could be more cost effective than a ZERO cost of adverising? If you sent out 500,000 e-mails which 
would take you only a few minutes to set your computer up to do and you only recieved one half of one 
percent response..that would be 2500 people responding to your ad. And the cost to do it was NOTHING. 
Junk e-mail is here to stay, so wouldn't it be nice to laugh every time you receive a piece of junk e-mail from 
someone because you know for every one you receive, you're sending out hundreds of  thousands. If 
your computer is sitting idle while you're at work or play...you're crazy! You could be earning money while 
you're asleep, at work or out having fun. It's not like you have to sit there and watch it run!
     So why isn't every one doing it? Well your local internet service provider spent lots of money installing 
filtering equipment to keep out this so-called junk e-mail and, in fact, for years there's been sort of a fun 
little war going on between the junk e-mail software writers and the internet serrvice provider filter 
software writers to see who could out-smart who.The end result is that sending mass e-mails legally has 
become an art . But it's really all about knowing the secrets and having the right software.
      AVATAR Publishing is offering you the type of expertise and support that would take you years to 
learn. We know all the secrets (obviously or you wouldn't be reading this would you?) and we have the 
software to deliver to most of the internet service providers. So here's the offer... AVATAR is offering you 
a mass e-mail starter kit comlete with step by step instructions on how to get started sending out mass e-
mails...a current explanation of what's legal and not legal...how to extract e-mail addresses from the 
internet ...how to get targeted e-mail addresses...a FREE trial version of the most effective mass e-mail 
software program ever developed...a list of bulk e-mail friendly internet service providers....a complete 
explanation of the secrets of how to legally get your mail through the filtering and why it works....and 
finally a real telephone number so you can have technical support and keep updated on new developments 
in the mass e-mail community. The total cost of this kit is only  $29. 
    If you would like to stop having your computer sit idle while you're at work or asleep and start having it 
make money for you  .....  

			 Send $29  to:	AVATAR Publishing
                                                                               	1000 E.Walnut St.
                                                                                Suite 213
					Pasadena,Ca.91106
                                                                          
					- OR -

			Order by Phone:	(626) 792-1764

To be removed from our e-mail list, submit your e-mail address to avatar502@yahoo.com






