From: Anonymous <nobody@replay.com>
Date: Fri, 31 Jul 1998 20:59:58 -0700 (PDT)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: No Subject
Message-ID: <199808010400.GAA04134@replay.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


> I had begun by thinking that, since the output of a block cipher in
> feedback mode (ie, a stream cipher) is uniformly distributed ("white") that
> it would be sufficient conditioning to feed a bad RNG into a block cipher
> with feedback.  Here, the bad RNG would kick the cipher out of the fixed,
> but key-dependant, sequence it would otherwise generate.

I don't quite parse what you're saying here...?

(more reply below)
... 
> On cypherpunks, Bill Stewart mentioned using hashes instead of ciphers.  
> A hash is like a cipher in that changing any input or key bit changes the
> output unpredictably, but a hash is irreversible because there are fewer
> output bits than input bits.  The simplest hash is a one-bit parity; MD5
> is a more expensive keyed hashing function used for message
> authentication.
> 
> Thinking about a hash instead of a cipher was interesting because now
> we reduce the number of output bits, which if done right, could
> improve the information carried by each binary digit.  We take the MAC
> of an imperfect random number and toss the original random, retaining
> the MAC as our better random value.

The problem with XORing is that you might have a generator where bits are
interdependent in a way that causes entropy to be lost in the XOR. You
generally don't have this problem with the more involved mixing functions.

If the construction you use for distilling the RNG's output to a random
number works as a collision-free hash function, you can place a lower
bound on the amount of entropy in the output based on how long it takes to
simulate the biases in the RNG (I posted a somewhat confuberated
description of the reasoning to coderpunks -- basically, if the hash of
the simulation's output has little enough entropy, it means you can break
the hash; since you can't break the hash, the output can't have that
little entropy). Normally, though, you can get away with using pretty much
any nonlinear mixing function, even if it's not a good hash function.

An "entropy pool" setup where you can put entropy in and pull keys out at
will gets slightly more hairy...if you want to do that, I suggest you try
to contact someone who knows what he/she's doing. :)

Should that prove infeasible, key a stream cipher with the mixed entropy,
and, when you want to pull a key out, grab some stream cipher output; when
you want to drop entropy in, mix some stream cipher output with your new
entropy and rekey the stream cipher with the result (to save time, I'd
only do the rekeying right before I want a key containing the new
entropy). Probably a lot more complicated and slow than it needs to be,
but I think it lets you add any amount of entropy you want without fear of
an attacker somehow interfering with the generation.

...





