From: Robert Hettinga <rah@shipwright.com>
Date: Mon, 11 May 1998 05:29:14 -0700 (PDT)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: DCSB: Michael Baum; PKI and the Commercial CA
Message-ID: <v04003a13b17c9e1a06a9@[139.167.130.246]>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



--- begin forwarded text


X-Sender: rah@pop.sneaker.net
Mime-Version: 1.0
Date: Mon, 11 May 1998 07:23:28 -0400
To: dcsb@ai.mit.edu, dcsb-announce@ai.mit.edu
From: Robert Hettinga <rah@shipwright.com>
Subject: DCSB: Michael Baum; PKI and the Commercial CA
Sender: bounce-dcsb@ai.mit.edu
Precedence: bulk
Reply-To: Robert Hettinga <rah@shipwright.com>

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

[Because Mr. Baum became ill at the last minute this February, we have
rescheduled him for the upcoming DCSB meeting... --RAH]


              The Digital Commerce Society of Boston

                            Presents

                        Michael S. Baum
                         VeriSign, Inc.

                        PKI Requirements
                             from a
                   Commercial CA's Perspective

                    Tuesday, June 2, 1998
                           12 - 2 PM
               The Downtown Harvard Club of Boston
                  One Federal Street, Boston, MA


Requirements for the provision of commercial certification products and
services are under consideration by many companies. Similarly, efforts to
regulate certification authorities (CAs) and public key infrastructure (PKI)
are proliferating by many domestic and foreign governments. Underlying many
of these efforts is the intention to assess and assure quality and
trustworthiness, and yet the nature, scope and regime to accomplish these
goals remain elusive or at least have been balkanized.

This presentation will consider CA and PKI requirements from the experiences
and perspective of a commercial CA. It will survey current approaches to
ascertaining quality and performance as well as their limitations. It will
then propose a path forward. Many of these issues are present real
challenges to both the CAs and the user community. A lively dialog is
welcomed.


Michael S. Baum is Vice President of Practices and External Affairs,
VeriSign, Inc.  His responsibilities include developing practices and
controls under which VeriSign conducts its public Digital ID and private
label certificate operations.

Mr. Baum is the Chair of the Information Security Committee, and Council
Member of the Section of Science and Technology, of the American Bar
Association. He is Chairman of the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC)
ETERMS Working Party and a Vice Chairman of the ICC's Electronic Commerce
Project, a delegate to the United Nations Commission on International Trade
Law on behalf of the ICC. He is a member of various digital signature
legislative advisory committees.

Mr. Baum is co-author (with Warwick Ford) of Secure Electronic Commerce
(Prentice Hall, 1997), author of Federal Certification Authority Liability
and Policy - Law and Policy of Certificate-Based Public Key and Digital
Signatures (NIST, 1994), co-author of Electronic Contracting, Publishing and
EDI Law (Wiley Law Publications, 1991), and contributing author to EDI and
the Law (Blenheim Online, 1989), and the author of diverse information
security publications including the first American articles on EDI law. He
was honored as an EDI Pioneer in 1993 (EDI Forum) and was the Recipient of
the National Notary Association's 1995 Achievement Award. He is a member of
the Massachusetts Bar.


This meeting of the Digital Commerce Society of Boston will be held on
Tuesday, June 2, 1998, from 12pm - 2pm at the Downtown Branch of the
Harvard Club of Boston, on One Federal Street. The price for lunch is
$32.50. This price includes lunch, room rental, various A/V hardware, and
the speaker's lunch. ;-).  The Harvard Club *does* have dress code: jackets
and ties for men (and no sneakers or jeans), and "appropriate business
attire" (whatever that means), for women.  Fair warning: since we purchase
these luncheons in advance, we will be unable to refund the price of your
lunch if the Club finds you in violation of the dress code.

We will attempt to record this meeting for sale on CD/R, and to put it on
the web in RealAudio format, at some future date.


We need to receive a company check, or money order, (or, if we *really* know
you, a personal check) payable to "The Harvard Club of Boston", by Saturday,
May 30th, or you won't be on the list for lunch.  Checks payable to
anyone else but The Harvard Club of Boston will have to be sent back.

Checks should be sent to Robert Hettinga, 44 Farquhar Street, Boston,
Massachusetts, 02131. Again, they *must* be made payable to "The Harvard
Club of Boston", in the amount of $32.50. Please include your e-mail
address, so that we can send you a confirmation

If anyone has questions, or has a problem with these arrangements (We've had
to work with glacial A/P departments more than once, for instance), please
let us know via e-mail, and we'll see if we can work something out.


Upcoming speakers for DCSB are:

July      Rodney Thayer       IPSEC and Digital Commerce
August    TBA
September TBA
October   Peter Cassidy       Intellectual Property Rights Management

TBA       Jeremey Barrett     Digital Bearer Settlement

We are actively searching for future speakers.  If you are in Boston on the
first Tuesday of the month, and you would like to make a presentation to the
Society, please send e-mail to the DCSB Program Commmittee, care of Robert
Hettinga, <mailto: rah@shipwright.com>.


For more information about the Digital Commerce Society of Boston, send
"info dcsb" in the body of a message to <mailto: majordomo@ai.mit.edu> . If
you want to subscribe to the DCSB e-mail list, send "subscribe dcsb" in the
body of a message to <mailto: majordomo@ai.mit.edu> .

We look forward to seeing you there!

Cheers,
Robert Hettinga
Moderator,
The Digital Commerce Society of Boston



-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: PGP for Personal Privacy 5.0
Charset: noconv

iQEVAwUBNVbff8UCGwxmWcHhAQFEcwgAq7w35o/XmKxTL7k3vQOtAtCVCiGUH3Ow
FUIP2B2riGNTGaCsTO3gliuK0nulXq/9qKjqYXmmg6P0tmMuLHXFgq3rxP284rUg
hfqU/7hswJHjwPFzuwu9BbKEd2pG6ryY3epsEsNpenAlxfbChJJ0E6Y8L/yQh6FX
qxB2L5gxf3POOT0/HiSDORemtHp7dKonsCC7yFGvERTda+byAE7ypFQoVFn14gt0
2cDDCX2yynrCozD4aTHIOxwli2bsenTHIzyLY9I5V3gHkCUBf1ocXuiqrfIy8jHR
4ibg0VAvN5Fbnc363iqIGrLdcVJYb46Nc/3EvPqr67ImIySeiKDMXA==
=ilR4
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

-----------------
Robert Hettinga (rah@shipwright.com), Philodox
e$, 44 Farquhar Street, Boston, MA 02131 USA
"... however it may deserve respect for its usefulness and antiquity,
[predicting the end of the world] has not been found agreeable to
experience." -- Edward Gibbon, 'Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire'
The e$ Home Page: http://www.shipwright.com/



For help on using this list (especially unsubscribing), send a message to
"dcsb-request@ai.mit.edu" with one line of text: "help".

--- end forwarded text



-----------------
Robert Hettinga (rah@shipwright.com), Philodox
e$, 44 Farquhar Street, Boston, MA 02131 USA
"... however it may deserve respect for its usefulness and antiquity,
[predicting the end of the world] has not been found agreeable to
experience." -- Edward Gibbon, 'Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire'
The e$ Home Page: http://www.shipwright.com/






