From: Quirk <quirk@cyberpass.net>
Date: Tue, 10 Nov 1998 15:09:20 +0800
To: cypherpunks@cyberpass.net
Subject: an odd one at pub.anonymizer
Message-ID: <Pine.SOL.3.96.981109224331.25593G-100000@cyberpass.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain




--mark--
-hedges- reviews http://pub.anonymizer.com/~lcchrist

The National Socialist Church of Christ espouses a turning away from the
old era figuring Hitler and the current Destruction of the Earth Part II
as the antichrist ending the cycle of Pisces. In the next phase of polar
angular orientation we will understand each other, the universe, and grow
into what we can be, because we figure out that otherwise we'll kill us
all. They demand spiritual revolution. Therefore they demand obscene
gestures and French Soltiers flipping dead cows with catapults at the
Brits looking for the Holy Grail. They are not centric on any ism but
expand their inclusiveness of what is sacred: the universe. Here I would
speak of Godel and the beauty of the semi-organised chaos / order /
balance / contrast forms inherent in the universe. In their site the
message remains that Destruction is a necessary force in the world from
time to time. That induces a feeling of condonence, not condolences.

The site plays some interesting games with a lot of very uplifting
philosophy for the understanding of the Holocaust and the genocide which
occurs today, but then, using Biblical reference and passive-voice claims
to the legitimacy of prophecy, it portrays Jesus risen again as Hitler:

"Christ had warned us that when He would return, He would come as a thief
in the night. Indeed, it had been prophesied that no man would know the
day or the hour of His return. Indeed, no one could ever have expected
that the Second Coming of Christ would mean His return to play the
completely opposite role that He had played before, coming not to save the
world, but to be its judge, baptizing not with water but rather with fire
and force!  The Second Coming of Christ came in such a completely
unexpected fashion that mankind remained completely unconscious of His
return and the fulfillment of Christian prophesy for more than fifty
years!" 

The speaker is anonymous and does not provide the contact address.





