From: "Jack Oswald / CEO / RPK Security Inc." <Announcements_reply@rpkusa.com>
Date: Wed, 18 Nov 1998 13:23:24 -0800 (PST)
To: Announcements@rpk.com
Subject: ANNOUNCEMENT: RPK SECURITY ADDS NOTED XIONICS EXECUTIVE GARY AMBROSINO TO BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Message-ID: <199811182105.NAA27862@proxy3.ba.best.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


You have received this message because at some time in the past your name was submitted to our e-mail mailing list database.  If you do not wish (or no longer wish) to receive announcements, updates and news concerning the RPK Encryptonite Engine or the RPK InvisiMail e-mail security products, please forward this message to remove@rpkusa.com

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONTACT
Paula Miller							Lyn Oswald
Nadel Phelan, Inc.						RPK Security Inc.
408-439-5570 x277						212-488-9891
paulam@nadelphelan.com					lynoswald@rpkusa.com	

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

RPK SECURITY ADDS NOTED XIONICS EXECUTIVE GARY AMBROSINO TO BOARD OF DIRECTORS

San Francisco, California, October 27, 1998 - RPK Security Inc. (www.rpkusa.com), a technology leader in fast public key encryption, today announced that Gary Ambrosino, recent vice president and general manager of Xionics Document Technologies (Nasdaq:XION), will join its Board of Directors. Following a recent round of seed financing, Mr. Ambrosino's addition to the Board is part of RPK's overall strategy to expand its management team.

Prior to joining RPK, Mr. Ambrosino spent five years at Xionics where he led the marketing and early stage sales program for the company's Multifunction Peripherals embedded control technology. Mr. Ambrosino has headed several seed stage technology companies, and spent eight years with Hewlett-Packard.  

"We are pleased to welcome Gary to our Board of Directors," said Jack Oswald, president and CEO of RPK Security. "His experience in driving business development and his extensive industry knowledge will be extremely valuable in the next phase of growth and deployment of our Encryptonite software and FastChip encryption technology into applications like secure remote printing."

"RPK Security has now reached, on schedule, several significant milestones," said Mr. Ambrosino. "These milestones include completion of a very low cost, high-speed encryption chip, the release of the Encryptonite development platform, and continued growth in acceptance of RPK InvisiMail, the world's easiest-to-use secure E-mail add-in."  

RPK's core technology, the patented RPK Encryptonite Engine, is an exceptionally fast public key algorithm for encryption, authentication and digital signatures. It offers a unique combination of the benefits of public key systems and the high performance characteristics of symmetric or "secret key" systems. RPK Encryptonite is available as a software toolkit or a high speed ASIC capable of large key encryption speeds of up to 100 megabits per second.   Applications include streaming video and audio narrowcasting, secure cellular and satellite telephones, and VPN implementation. Developed outside of the U.S., the RPK Encryptonite Engine is available globally with strong encryption, unlike competing products that are restricted by U.S. export regulations.

ABOUT RPK SECURITY
Founded in 1995, RPK Security, Inc. is a technology leader in fast public key encryption. RPK's cryptographic research and product development is based in New Zealand, Switzerland and the U.K, with worldwide sales and marketing in San Francisco, CA.  Contact RPK at www.rpkusa.com or (212) 488-9891.




