From: nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)
Date: Wed, 14 Jan 1998 11:17:42 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Rincin AP
Message-ID: <199801140309.EAA12439@basement.replay.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Forward from Terrorism list:

From: JCHV72A@prodigy.com (MR JAMES P DENNEY)
Date: Tue, 13 Jan 1998 19:45:44, -0500
To: TERRORISM@mediccom.org
Subject: RICIN ALERT

Bureau of Narcotic Enforcement
Merced/Mariposa Narcotic Task Force

RE: RICIN Alert

The Sacramento Regional Office of the Bureau of Narcotic Enforcement 
has offered this alert to all it's personnel:

  "The following alert has been confirmed and is being shared 
  throughout the law enforcement and intelligence community.

  This alert advises that nationwide trend among drug traffickers is to 
  "bait" law enforcement officers with a white powder called RICIN. 
  RICIN is a derivative of Castor beans and looks like powder 
  methamphetamine. It is highly toxic and if it contacts human skin, it 
  is fatal. The death process takes several days, depending upon the 
  dosage, and is almost impossible to detect during an autopsy.

  Forensic experts advise that if you field test RICIN in the Scott 
  Reagent Kit, it will foam and bubble extensively. The test will also 
  produce a gas that is very similar to mustard gas and can also be 
  lethal if inhaled. RICIN is 6,000 times more lethal than cyanide and 
  there is no antidote. Symptoms of contact exposure to RICIN are: 
  Fever, cough, weakness, and hypothermia, progressing to dangerously 
  low blood pressure, heart failure and death.

  Due to this situation, in the event of suspect drug seziures, do not 
  come into direct skin contact with any powdered substances, and 
  exhibit caution of field testing any powdered substances."

We are forwarding this advisory to all California EMS Agencies and 
recommend that each agency contact the local hospitals in their area. 
We are unaware if RICIN can be detected on a toxicological exam.

There is a potential for someone, other than law enforcement, to 
become contaminated with this substance.

-----






