From: damaged justice <frogfarm@yakko.cs.wmich.edu>
Date: Wed, 9 Dec 1998 03:17:37 +0800
To: cypherpunks@Algebra.COM
Subject: Survey Says Kids Feel 'Threatened' By Internet
Message-ID: <19981208124833.A13068@yakko.cs.wmich.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain




   A survey has suggested that up to half a million British children may
   have been upset by something they have seen on the Internet.
   
   The NOP poll shows that one in five of nearly 4,000 children between
   the ages of six and 16 interviewed for the survey between September
   and October this year were "uncomfortable" with some content viewed
   on-line.
   
   In the UK, 2.4 million children are estimated to use the Internet -
   roughly a third of all children between six and 16.
   
   Of those who have had negative experiences while surfing the Internet,
   the largest proportion - 40% - had seen something "rude".
   
   'Not surprised'
   
   One in seven said they had encountered content that had "freightened
   them", while 25% saw pages that they thought "would get them into
   trouble".
   
   NOP Associate Director Rob Lawson described the numbers as a
   "significant minority".
   
   The children's charity NCH Action for Children suggested the survey
   strengthened calls for Internet regulation to protect younger users.
   
   Charity spokesman John Carr said: "I regret to say I'm not surprised
   by this survey's findings, it's what we have been saying for some
   time.
   
   Net nannies
   
   "Parents need to know their children are surfing the net in safety and
   security. At the moment, they have no way of knowing that at all."
   
   NCH Action for Children, which advises the government on children's
   issues, backs the introduction of "net nannies" - programmes which
   filter out content unsuitable for children.
   
   The survey, called Kids.net, was paid for by Microsoft, the BBC,
   NatWest and Anglia Multimedia in syndicate.
   
   The Department of Trade and Industry's forthcoming review on Internet
   regulation is expected to be published before Christmas.

[from news.bbs.co.uk]




