From: Webroot@ix.netcom.com
Date: Sun, 12 Jul 1998 18:38:01 -0700 (PDT)
To: Webroot@ix.netcom.com
Subject: Cancer Treatment BREAKTHROUGH!!!!
Message-ID: <199807060040.TAA11965@cityatlas.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


DRAMATICALLY EFFECTIVE CANCER 

TREATMENT IN FINAL DEVELOPMENT

FOR SOFT TISSUE CANCERS OF THE

LIVER, BREAST AND LUNGS -  

by a company that just went public last week! 

Now you can participate in the multi-billion
dollar cancer treatment industry by owning 
stock in this company before the "Wall Street
Analysts" discover it. The company is in 
the final stages of researching and 
developing this new drug to help cure soft  
tissue cancers of the liver, breast and lungs.

This company is led by a very distinguished 
team of Cancer Research Specialists who have
studied this disease for the last two decades.
The company holds the worldwide manufacturing
and marketing rights (except for the former
Soviet Union) for this drug. 

The company is called :

NuOncology Labs Inc.

Trading Symbol: NLAB

Trades:   OTC  BB

'NLAB' started trading last Thursday,July 9,
at: $5 15/32

At the market close Friday, July 10, it was:
$6 1/8

Trials are now being conducted on over 200 
human cancer patients with this new drug and
some very important announcements are 
expected to come from NuOncology over the 
next few weeks.

To have complete investor information sent to 
you via e-mail on this innovative new 
pharmaceutical research and development 
company just :

Click Here

You will get back complete information via
e-mail within the next 24 hours on :
  
NuOncology Labs, Inc. 

We profile companies at the time they initially
go public - before they have been discovered 
by 'The Street' and financial media and have 
by that time already doubled or tripled in price.
By requesting additional information on 
NuOncology Labs, Inc., you are also requesting 
a subscription to our newsletter that profiles
emerging new companies. There is no obligation
and absolutely no cost to you. You may 
unsubscribe at any time. 





