From: Global Web Builders <gwb@gwb.com.au>
Date: Wed, 15 Jul 1998 01:45:14 -0700 (PDT)
To: (Recipient list suppressed)
Subject: Aboriginal voting and the 1967 Referendum
Message-ID: <1.5.4.32.19980715075812.00734c6c@gwb.com.au>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Dear One Nation supporter in NSW

I would draw your attention to the following press release by Pauline Hanson
today:

Aboriginal voting and the 1967 Referendum 

It is clear Pauline Hanson is often misrepresented by the press and the
recent headlines headlines that suggest she questioned Aboriginal
Australian's rights to vote is yet another example of selective reporting.
Is this because of the search for what will be the most inflammatory or is
it just that some members of the press pick out of context what they believe
will do the most damage to Pauline Hanson? 

"I have not and would not question the right to vote of any Australian
citizen. What I question is whether Australians would have thought twice
about their vote in the 1967 referendum if they had known their attempt to
bring about equality was going to cause the pendulum to go the other way. 

"The main point of the 1967 referendum was the change of section 51 of the
constitution that allowed the government to make special laws with respect
to Aborigines. It is from this that successive governments have created race
based policies such as Abstudy and 1.5% loans for Aboriginals starting
businesses. 

"Aboriginal Australians like all Australians should and do have the right to
vote but no one should be treated differently on the basis of race - all
Australians should be treated equally and the same. I am quite certain that
if Australians had understood
where the 1967 referendum would lead, many would have voted differently. 

"These special laws based on race have led to reverse discrimination and the
rorting of taxpayers money without helping the Aborigines in most need. We
must assist Aborigines, but as Australians in need, not on the basis of
race. We must not make
laws that set Australians apart and are open to abuse by those who pretend
to look after the Aboriginal people. 

"It is often reported that I want to take benefits from Aboriginal people,
that is not correct and never was correct. It is true many Aboriginal people
are seriously disadvantaged but they do not have a monopoly on being
disadvantaged and should not
be singled out on the basis of race. Everyone should be assisted on the
basis of need." 

Statement issued by Pauline Hanson MP, member for Oxley 

-----------

GWB



Scott Balson





