From: Interactive Services <interactive.services1@gartner.com>
Date: Mon, 6 Apr 1998 10:31:42 -0700 (PDT)
To: Gartner Interactive Users <interactive.users@gartner.com>
Subject: Live Tomorrow - Free Keynote Sessions from Predicts
Message-ID: <199804061731.KAA25340@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Dear Subscriber:

As a registered user of GartnerGroup Interactive, we invite you
to join our FREE  webcasts of keynote sessions live from
GartnerGroup Predicts: The IT Marketplace, April 7 - 9, in San
Diego.

These FREE Keynotes, brought to you by GartnerGroup Live, offer
exciting predictions and captivating presentations from
world-renowned economic advisor George Gilder, GartnerGroup
analysts and an exclusive panel of CEO's featuring David House
(Chairman, President and CEO, Bay Networks), Dr. Eric Schmidt
(Chairman of the Board and CEO, Novell, Inc.), John Roth
(President and CEO, Nortel (Northern Telecom). For more
information visit
http://www.gartner.com/public/static/gr/glive.html

----------------------------------------------------------------

Message Contents:

1. About the FREE Keynote Webcasts from GartnerGroup Predicts
2. Additional Presentations Available from GartnerGroup Predicts
3. How to Listen
4. How to Unsubscribe from Future Mailings

----------------------------------------------------------------

1. FREE KEYNOTE WEBCASTS FROM GARTNERGROUP PREDICTS

The entire IT market will be buzzing as the leading minds of IT
share their visions of the next five years at GartnerGroup
Predicts in San Diego, next week.

GartnerGroup Live enables you to watch the complete, uncut
webcasts of keynotes and selected sessions from the conference
using streaming audio and video technology. For the hottest IT
predictions, point your browser to
http://www.gartner.com/public/static/gr/glive.html

Here's what's yours FREE as a Gartner Interactive Subscriber:
(All times represent Pacific Standard Time zone)

Tuesday, April 7, 8:30 AM
I. Information Technology: Transforming Your Business
In this opening keynote address, world-renowned economic advisor
George Gilder will set the stage for Predicts with an insightful
look at larger economic issues surrounding the IT market.

Tuesday, April 7, 9:15 AM
II. GartnerGroup Predicts: The State of the IT Industry
GartnerGroup's State of the IT Industry address, presented by
senior GartnerGroup analysts Bill McNee and Davis Blair, will
examine the current condition and future direction of this
volatile and complex industry.

Wednesday, April 8, 11:00 AM
III. Networking Visionary Panel: What's Coming Down the Wire (or Fiber)?
Our panel of networking heavyweights, including David House
(Chairman, President and CEO, Bay Networks), Dr. Eric Schmidt
(Chairman of the Board and CEO, Novell, Inc.), John Roth
(President and CEO, Nortel (Northern Telecom).

GartnerGroup analysts and other CEOs, will look ahead and debate
critical issues such as: industry consolidation among vendors
and across markets; the blurring of technology boundaries; which
technologies will dominate for voice, data, video and evolving
infrastructure alternatives and market leadership criteria and
challenges.


2. OTHER GARTNERGROUP PREDICTS PRESENTATIONS AVAILABLE FROM GARTNERGROUP LIVE

This series of dynamic Powerhouse presentations and User
Environment Tracks can be purchased on Gartner Interactive.

I. The IT Powerhouse Sessions
http://www.gartner.com/public/static/gr/power.html

In these Predicts sessions GartnerGroup takes a hard look at a
dozen IT market megavendors that enjoy large market
capitalization and influence, large customer bases and span
multiple technologies and markets. You'll learn how they got
where they are today, where they're going tomorrow, and which
up-and-comers could knock them off the hill.

Hear leading GartnerGroup analyst predictions about:

-AT&T Will it Survive?
-Cisco: Success in the Next Generation?
-IBM: E-Business Driver or Passenger?
-Intel: More and More Powerful
-Microsoft: Will the Future be as Bright?
-SAP: Continuing Kingpin or Future Retread?
-Many more sessions are also available!

II. IT User Environment Tracks
http://www.gartner.com/public/static/gr/user.html

In these specially selected information-packed sessions,
GartnerGroup's Research and Advisory Services and Dataquest
analysts will deliver actionable advice on resolving your most
pressing IT procurement, deployment and management concerns.

Tune in and discover:

-Emerging Technology Trends and Their Business Impact
-Internet/Intranet Architectures: Development Issues
-NT's Readiness for the Enterprise
-Network Computing and Total Cost of Ownership
-From TCO to ROI
-Networking: Switching Gigabits to GigaDollars
-Many, many more sessions also available!


3. HOW TO LISTEN

To listen and view the keynotes, you will need the following
minimum requirements:

For Windows: Windows 3.1, 95 or NT; 486 machine; a 16-bit sound
card with driver; an Internet connection; 28.8 Kbps modem or
above; 8 MB RAM; 2 MB hard disk space.

For Macintosh: PowerPC (recommended); 68040K processor; 8 MB
RAM; 2 MB hard disk space; an Internet connection; and 28.8 Kbps
modem or above.

You will also need Real Network's Real Media player or
Microsoft's Netshow. The software is downloadable in a couple of
minutes (if you are using Internet Explorer 4.0 you may already
have Netshow). Once the plug-in is installed, it works
seamlessly with your Web browser.

Download the Real Media Player at
http://www.real.com/products/player/downloadrealplayer.html?wp=d
l031198page&src=download

Download Netshow at
http://www.microsoft.com/netshow/download/player.htm

If you have any trouble viewing the keynotes, please see these
Frequently Asked Questions at http://www.audionet.com/faq or
call GartnerGroup's client support center at 203-316-3600.


4. UNSUBSCRIBE

We sent you this update because you are registered on the
Gartner Interactive web site.

To have yourself removed from our updates mailing list, please
send an e-mail to unsubscribe.updates@gartner.com





