From: jeff206@juno.com
Date: Wed, 16 Sep 1998 00:44:54 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Titanic
Message-ID: <199809160744.AAA18755@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Dear Titanic Enthusiast:
 
    Sometime over the last few months you had visited our Titanic 
site entitled "Enter The Titanic". Also, you signed our Guest 
Book, expressed an interest in purchasing Titanic merchandise and 
left us your email address. I hope you don't mind receiving this 
message. If you do not wish to receive these messages regarding 
Titanic or Titanic merchandise in the future, simply respond to 
this email with "NO MORE" written in the subject window. 

    For those of you interested, the cost of two of our most 
popular items have been reduced by our suppliers due to large 
volumes sold from our site.  Authentic reproduction buttons and 
the Titanic CD ROM. 

 1). Authentic Reproductions - The Waterbury Button Company 
produced the solid brass buttons which adorned the coats of both 
the officers and crew of the R.M.S. Titanic. They also reproduced 
the buttons to be used in the James Camron movie "TITANIC". They 
have once more produced these buttons for public collection. These 
buttons are pressed from the same molds used in 1912, solid brass 
and coated in 24K gold. At only $29.95 plus shipping and handling 
they make a great gift or collection piece. CLICK HERE for a 
detailed description or visit 
http://www.geocities.com/baja/8334/reproductions.htm 
  

 2). "TITANIC: A Voyage of Discovery" CD ROM - This CD ROM disk is 
loaded with the most information compiled on Titanic than any 
other source available. It's filled with photos, music, video, 
artifacts and stories taken from the actual account of survivors. 
It's a must have for any Titanic enthusiast. This fact filled CD 
ROM has been reduced for a short time to only $45.95 plus shipping 
and handling. CLICK HERE for more details or visit 
http://www.unidial.com/~bflowers/home.htm 

    I hope you will visit these sites and add these great items to 
your Titanic collection. We pride ourselves in offering only the 
highest quality, authentic Titanic merchandise. Other products we 
offer are listed at our Titanic Merchandise page located at 
http://www.unidial.com/~bflowers/merchandise.htm 

Remember Titanic and those who lost their lives aboard her. May 
They Rest In Peace !
  

Bob Flowers, Jr. 
Webmaster 
Enter The Titanic 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 




