From: "Steve Orrin" <privsoft@ix.netcom.com>
Date: Mon, 22 Jun 1998 16:19:07 -0700 (PDT)
To: "Cypherpunks Algebra" <cypherpunks@algebra.com>
Subject: Verisign & NAI Join Forces, PGP out the door?
Message-ID: <199806222317.SAA04853@dfw-ix5.ix.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


To all:

Word is the PGP is being dropped as a standard and NAI converting over to
x.509 throughout product line. However the info is vague wnough to mean
alot of things:)

sorrin

NETWORK ASSOCIATES AND VERISIGN PARTNER TO PROVIDE INTEROPERABLE
6/22/98 13:18


         Digital Certificate Solutions to Millions of Users Worldwide

    Partnership Provides Customers Choice of Leading Certificate Formats,
          Enabling Widespread Secure Internet Business Transactions

    MOUNTAIN VIEW and SANTA CLARA, Calif., June 22 /PRNewswire/ --
VeriSign,
Inc. (Nasdaq: VRSN), and Network Associates (Nasdaq: NETA), today announced
a
broad reaching partnership to enable cross product support and promotion of

each company's digital certificate-based security solutions.  This
partnership
will provide customers with a flexible security solution that encompasses
best-of-breed products and technologies -- enabling secure global
electronic
commerce and business-to-business communications on a larger scale than
ever
before.  With this announcement, Network Associates and VeriSign can tap
into
the world's largest community of certificate holders made up of over one
thousand five hundred enterprises and nearly nine million individuals
throughout the world.
    This integration of the world's leading certificate technologies will
enable businesses to utilize their choice of certificate formats while
conducting secure Internet transactions such as:  exchanging secure e-mail,
establishing virtual private networks, and authorized access to
confidential
corporate data.  Network Associates and VeriSign customers will now be able
to
establish combined PKI solutions covering the complete lifecycle of
certificates from issuance and usage through renewal, expiration, or
revocation.  The first commercial offering from this collaboration will be
interoperable between the Gauntlet GVPN product and VeriSign OnSite for
IPSEC,
which will be available in the third quarter.  In the fourth quarter
VeriSign's OnSite service and toolkit will be enhanced to issue DSA X.509
certificates in addition to its RSA X.509 certificates, and Network
Associates' Net Tools Secure, including their industry leading PGP
encryption
products, will be updated to request and use either type of certificate.
    "By joining the two largest players in the industry to ensure that our
customers' security applications are seamlessly compatible, we are fueling
the
growth of electronic commerce and secure communications on the Internet,"
said
Peter Watkins general manager of the Net Tools Secure division at Network
Associates.  "We are pleased to offer VeriSign as our preferred provider of
digital certificate services.  Together, we are the only two companies to

support the full range of certificate standards -- giving customers the
power
of choice when implementing their open, certificate-based security
solutions."
    "We are extremely pleased to work with Network Associates to bring
enterprise customers a clear best-of-breed solution," said Stratton
Sclavos,
president and CEO of VeriSign.  "With this partnership, users of Network
Associates' desktop and server encryption applications can simply obtain
their
choice of digital certificates to establish a fully functional,
interoperable
PKI through the use of OnSite."
    "The announcement from VeriSign and Network Associates is a win-win
situation for Information Systems (IS) decision makers," said Jim Hurley,
director of information security at Aberdeen Group, a Boston-based IS
market-research, consulting and analysis firm.  "One supplier helps IS
managers by managing risk while the other helps IS managers by enabling
safe
interconnections with suppliers, partners and customers for mission
business-procedures.  Interoperable and seamless support between these
supplier's products is the kind of partnership that IS executives will
reward."
    VeriSign OnSite, a state of the art digital certificate solution that
enables organizations to quickly and easily establish themselves as a
certificate authority, is available today for client and server digital
certificates and will be available for IPSec digital certificates in the
third
quarter.  VeriSign OnSite pricing begins at $4995 for 1000 client
certificates.
    Network Associates' Net Tools Secure suite is the industry's most
comprehensive set of security products encompassing enterprise encryption,
authentication, intrusion detection, audit analysis, anti-virus, firewall,
global virtual private network and network vulnerability assessment.  Net
Tools Secure is available now and is priced at $49 per user for 5000 users.

    Network Associates, Inc.
    With headquarters in Santa Clara, California, Network Associates, Inc.,
formed by the merger of McAfee Associates and Network General, is a leading
supplier of enterprise network security and management solutions. Network
Associates' Net Tools Secure and Net Tools Manager offer
best-of-breed, suite-based network security and management solutions.  Net
Tools Secure and Net Tools Manager suites combine to create Net Tools,
which
centralizes these point solutions within an easy-to-use, integrated systems

management environment. For more information, Network Associates can be
reached at 408-988-3832 or on the Internet at http://www.nai.com.
    VeriSign, Inc. is the leading provider of digital certificate solutions
used by enterprises, Web sites and consumers to conduct secure
communications
and transactions over the Internet and private networks. VeriSign's Digital
IDs and Secure Server IDs are available through the company's Web site at
http://www.verisign.com.  VeriSign's E-Commerce Solutions are used by
enterprises to deploy complete Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) solutions
for
intranets, extranets, and large-scale electronic commerce applications, and
are available through VeriSign regional account representatives or through
VeriSign resellers.  For more information visit VeriSign's Web site at
http://www.verisign.com.

SOURCE  Network Associates, Inc.
    -0-                             06/22/98
    /CONTACT:  Nathan Tyler of Copithorne & Bellows, 415-975-2223, for
Network
Associates; or Kelly Ryan of VeriSign, 650-429-3424/
    /Company News On-Call:  http://www.prnewswire.com or fax, 800-758-5804,
ext. 124004/
    /Web site:  http://www.verisign.com
                http://www.nai.com/
    (NETA VRSN)

CO:  Network Associates, Inc.; VeriSign, Inc.
ST:  California
IN:  CPR MLM
SU:  PDT









-0- (PRN) Jun/22/98   13:03
EOS   (PRN)    Jun/22/98    13:03      86

-0- (PRN) Jun/22/  98   13:18






