From: Robert Hettinga <rah@shipwright.com>
Date: Sat, 24 Oct 1998 04:24:39 +0800
To: cypherpunks@cyberpass.net
Subject: Human Action Gone
Message-ID: <v04020a0fb2568c2a0072@[139.167.130.246]>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain




--- begin forwarded text


From: "Mises Institute News" <news@mises.org>
To: <miseslist@mises.org>
Subject: Human Action Gone
Date: Fri, 23 Oct 1998 13:53:07 -0500
MIME-Version: 1.0
X-Priority: 3
X-MSMail-Priority: Normal
X-MimeOLE: Produced By Microsoft MimeOLE V4.72.3110.3
Precedence: bulk
Sender: miseslist-owner@mail.mises.org
Status: U

Thanks to an overwhelming response, our stock of other Human Action editions
is now gone.

The Scholar's Edition will be available November 23, 1998.

This is a re-release of the original, unaltered 1949 treatise that shaped a
generation of Austrians and made possible the intellectual movement that is
leading the global charge for free markets.

Made available for the first time in decades, exclusively through the Ludwig
von Mises Institute, this edition uses extraordinary materials and the best
of modern technology, combined with ancient standards of craftsmanship in
the tradition of Oxford University's Clarendon Press. This magnificent work
is produced for the ages.

 Carefully set in the classic, readable, and beautiful Jansen typeface,
including the 1954, 30-page index prepared under Mises's supervision, the
most extensive ever compiled;

 Printed on stunning pure white, acid-free Finch Fine 50 lb. paper;

 Covered in spectacular dark azure Odyssey cloth from the Netherlands, the
finest natural-finish, moisture-resistant book fabric in the world;

 Protected by a strong slipcase from the famous Old Dominion company,
covered in matching Odyssey cloth and featuring old-fashioned thumb-cuts for
easy handling;

 Secured by the finest caliper Binders Board;

 Graced with antique-stone endpapers from Ecologic Fibers;

 Casebound with the strongest Smyth-sewn signatures;

 Fitted at head and foot with silken endbands, thick wrapped for
durability;

 Complimented with a double-faced satin ribbon place marker, and portrait
of Mises;

 Stamped with brilliant, real non-tarnishing gold foil from Japan's Nakai
International;

 Produced at R.R. Donnelly's famed Crawfordsville Bindery, where America's
finest books are assembled.

All told, The Scholar's Edition looks exactly like the classic work it is,
ready for a lifetime (or two) of use. The introduction, by Hans-Hermann
Hoppe, Jeffrey Herbener, and Joseph Salerno-based on newly discovered
archives-tells of the tragic and glorious history of this seminal work, and
of its bright future as the manifesto of liberty.

Human Action: The Scholar's Edition is the foundation of every library of
freedom. You will want a treasured copy in your collection. And if you want
to send a copy as a gift to a friend or family member, we'll wrap it
appropriately at no charge, and enclose a card in your name.

The price for this nine-hundred-page masterpiece is $65. Your credit card
will
not be charge until the order is shipped. Call 800-636-4737, or order
securely through our on-line catalog at www.mises.org

--- end forwarded text


-----------------
Robert A. Hettinga <mailto: rah@philodox.com>
Philodox Financial Technology Evangelism <http://www.philodox.com/>
44 Farquhar Street, Boston, MA 02131 USA
"... however it may deserve respect for its usefulness and antiquity,
[predicting the end of the world] has not been found agreeable to
experience." -- Edward Gibbon, 'Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire'




