From: Linda Reed--PCC West Campus CSC <lreed@west.cscwc.pima.edu>
Date: Sat, 25 Jul 1998 11:04:11 -0700 (PDT)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Beans - SPACE ALIENS HIDE MY DRUGS!!!
Message-ID: <009C9B44.962BDA00.5@west.cscwc.pima.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Beans, Beans, They're Good For The Heart - SAHMD!!!
___________________________________________________

  But they are very, very bad for the lungs.

  By popular request, as a result of a plethora of requests being
forwarded to me by <bianca@dev.null>, even though I had no idea
that so many subscribers to the CypherPunks list were aware of
the true existence of the DevNullServer, I will expand a bit on
the simplicity of the on-site creation of biochemical substances
with the capacity to neutralize ExcessivelyAcidicAuthoritarians.

  Reading the literature on the production of such biochemical 
agents as Rincin, etc., one is struck by the need to go to great
lengths to prevent being struck by the end-results of one's own
experimentation in the creation of such substances.
  The need for outrageously complex security precautions in the
preparation of biochemical agents makes the task prohibitive for
those with limited access to funds and/or proper tools for the
job. Or so it would seem...

  The fact of the matter is, if one pays close attention to the
methods and processes of producing these agents, it quickly becomes
apparent that eliminating the need for the transporting of these
substances thereby eliminates much of the need for expensive and
time-consuming safeguards against self-exposure to these deadly
agents.
  In effect, if one can develop a mechanism to produce these
biochemical agents at the site at which one wishes them to be
released, then he or she can be relaxing on a beach at Honolulu
while the little spores are busy taking care of business.

  MadBombers use timing mechanisms which delay the triggering of
their products until they have had time to start making tracks
toward the car that their government coconspirators have taken
the rear license-plate off of.
  The spawning process of biochemical agents is a natural trigger-
delay system which can be used to effectively create the desired
substances while one is using the time to beat feat to an exotic
island paradise.
  Spawning biochemical agents where 'a little goes a long way,' means
that, once the mechanism kicks in, the results will be dramatic and
far-reaching.

  Another advantage of on-site production is that dogs which are 
trained to recognize the scent of biochemical agents are unlikely
to be trained to set off barking-flags over the scent of the basic
ingredients used to create those substances.

  The down-side, of course, is that one cannot be certain that the
desired substance will not be created/disseminated at a time when
a local grade-school class is visiting the site as part of an LEA
propagand exercise.
  However, if one is capable of taking the position that a government
organization which consciously places a day-care center in a federal
building known to be a soft-target for anti-government radicals, the 
responsibilty for their deaths falls on the government, then c'est la
vie...

  Personally, I am of the opinion that any goverment that has no qualms
about letting hundreds of poor, black men suffer the vile consequences
of untreated syphilus, burning out the brains of average citizens to
further the cause of mind-control research, expose unwitting citizens
to radiation and hallucinogenic experiments without their consent, ad
infinituum, can pretty much go fuck themselves if they attempt to
decry those who attack them as Monsters, as a result of so-called
innocents suffering as a result of the government's complacency and
audacity in deeming themselves above retribution by those they are in
the habit of so casually oppressing and persecuting.

  Anyone who wishes to attend the grand spectacle of the RCMP's
Musical Ride, during the celebration of their 150th anniversary of
keeping the average citizen from rising up against the rich and
powerful, is welcome to do so.
  However, if they find their ass getting scorched as a result of
the efforts of those being fucked in the ass by Dudley DoWrong taking
it upon themselves to throw a serious fuck back towards whence it
came, they should refrain from whining.

  Pardon me for sounding just a tad 'callous,' but I have had the
opportunity to peruse private emails and memos between various
members of Canada's Finest, and I find it rather disgusting that
they can so casually discuss the probability of their attempts to
pressure a mentally disabled person into 'cracking' resulting in
HimOrHer committing physical destruction on the local schoolchildren
(based on HisOrHer publication of a 'KILL THE CHILDREN!!!' Bienfait
Nutly News Special), so that they will be able to step in as the
GoodGuys who bring HimOrHer to Justice (TM), without suffering any
personal losses in the process.
  Skeptical? Ask the RCMP to provide you with a copy of the files on
the computer which they stole from me, after monitoring my website
and emails, which made it clear that my computer fulfilled an essential
role in researching my medical condition, and maintaining effective
treatment for it. Once you receive the files, read one that is named
'warning.sog,' in which Bianca forwards a file purloined from a
Canadian government computer system, which contains a discussion as
to the desirability of putting pressure on me at a time when I am
short on my medications. Do a text search on a file which suggests
that, due to my Tourette Syndrome, it is inadvisable for LEA's to
work me over for merely shouting and cursing, but that if I begin
waving my arms around, they can consider themselves in danger, and
do anything they desire to my sorry ass.

  Think I'm kidding?
  Thanks to the incredible ignorance of LEA's who believe that they
are free to monitor the communications of the citizenry, while the
reverse is illegal and unacceptable, I was afforded the opportunity
to BeatFeet across the U.S. border the day before the Mounties appeared
on my doorstep to steal my computers as punishment for speaking the
Truth, and bury backup copies of my complete hard drive, which contain
information which makes the above 'allegations' seem trite, by
comparison.
  What I find hilarious is that copies of extremely culpatory and
embarassing files/emails were forwarded to a variety of those from
who they originated, yet monitoring of the ongoing investigation
in this regard indicates that the FuckWads are as conscientious
about fucking over the internal investigators as they are about
fucking over the citizenry.
  Equally hilarious is the fact that whoever is in charge of running
the Official RCMP WebSite seems to be unaware that any directory
without an 'index.html' file, when accessed, gives the user access
to *all* of the files in the directory, which makes them a very,
very bad place to wittingly or unwittingly store sensitive files.

  In case you haven't already guessed, I am currently drunk, onery
and mean.
  Any tarantula that bites me is in for a big surprise...




