From: Anonymous <nobody@replay.com>
Date: Fri, 9 Oct 1998 05:03:41 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: No Subject
Message-ID: <199810082030.WAA12450@replay.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Is there an offhand reference to ECHELON in the second paragraph?


 

National Counterintelligence Center
Counterintelligence News and Developments
Volume 3 September 1998
------------------------------------------------------------------------

http://www.nacic.gov/cind/SEPT98.htm


More on French Spying

The French magazine Le Point reported in mid-June that France
systematically listens in on the telephone conversations and cable traffic
of many businesses based in the United States and other nations. The
article also reports the French Government uses a network of listening
stations to eavesdrop and pass on commercial secrets to French businesses
competing in the global economy.


The article goes on to state that the French secret service, DGSE, has
established listening posts in the Dordogne (Southern France) and also in
its overseas territories, including French Guiana and New Caledonia. The
article attributes to an unnamed "senior official within this branch of the
French secret service" the claim, "This is the game of the secret war,"
adding that U.S. listening posts do the same. The magazine report says
Germans who bought into the French Helios 1A spy satellite system are being
given access to political and economic secrets as part of a Franco-German
agreement to compete with a commercial information agreement between the
United States and Britain. 




------------------------------------------------------------------------


Mexican Hackers 
Mount Attack





According to an August 1998 Reuters report, a small group of computer
hackers have declared electronic war on the Mexican state. They have
plastered the face of revolutionary hero Emiliano Zapata on the Finance
Ministry's Web site and claim to have monitored visits by Mexican Senators
to X-rated Internet sites. They also have vowed to attack official
databases for incriminating numbers and publicize government bank accounts,
cellular phone conversations, and e-mail addresses. So far the cyber
pirates, who say they are a trio of Mexicans, appear to be more a nuisance
than a serious threat, but they are serving as a wake-up call for computer
security in Mexico, experts said. One of the hackers stated during an
online interview with Reuters that "We protest with the weapons we have and
those weapons are computers." The hackers surfaced in February when
visitors to the Finance Ministry's official Web site were surprised to find
Zapata staring back at them.






  







