From: "Industry.net News" <newsletter@info.industry.net>
Date: Thu, 17 Sep 1998 08:25:22 +0800
To: cypher <cypherpunks@toad.com>
Subject: Industry.net Announces Premium Membership
Message-ID: <19980917062002.000045@langly.emailpub.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



As an Industry.net member, you already know how convenient it is
to have one place to go for industry news, events, and sources of
supply. In addition to this free content, Industry.net recently
introduced Premium Membership, your gateway to engineering databases
in the exclusive Data Depot and even more technical resources in
the Reference Shelf. Sign up now and enjoy all the benefits of
Premium Membership for the low, introductory price of $19.95 per year.


Read on for more details or visit http://www.industry.net/pm-mktg/.

Data Depot
Industry.net's Data Depot is a gateway to comprehensive
technical industrial products and components information.

-  Make design and specification decisions using complete technical
   product descriptions with Industry.net's exclusive Industrial
   Catalogs at http://www.industry.net/pm-mktg/icdescription.htm.
   As a Premium Member, for only $37.95 per month, you can access
   catalogs from over 15,000 manufacturers and distributors of
   industrial products and services.  The Industrial Catalogs have
   been subject indexed and cross-referenced enabling you to quickly
   search and FIND the company or product you are interested in.

   Watch for future additions to Industry.net's Data Depot including
   online ordering of more than 200,000 technical standards,
   specifications, and reference documents; downloadable industry
   standards; and key supplier information on more than 12 million
   parts.

Reference Shelf
Industry.net's Reference Shelf provides fingertip access to many
reference tools and resources that engineers use on a daily basis.

-  Make sure your technical documentation is in compliance with
   current industry standards with the online Drawing Requirements
   Manual.

-  Enjoy convenient, fingertip access to frequently used (but often
   forgotten) engineering equations and formulas.

-  Apply NASA technology to your commercial applications and product
   development.

-  Stay abreast of changing federal and state safety and compliance
   regulations.

-  Catch up with previously published Industry.net information in our
   Archives section.

-  Keep pace with manufacturing technology with the Integrated
   Manufacturing Technologies Roadmap (IMTR).

-  More to come

Visit http://www.industry.net and get access to a world of information
at your fingertips!  In case you have forgotten your username, it is:
crads.

Would you like to participate in a focus group where we brainstorm
enhancements to Industry.net?  (send your response to
feedback@industry.net)

Would your company benefit from a presence on the Industry.net site?
(send your response to sales@industry.net and provide the name of your
marketing representative)

If you would rather not be notified about new features on Industry.net,
please unsubscribe by doing the following: (be assured that we respect
your privacy and will not contact you further and we never send your
name and/or e-mail address to other parties)

Reply to this message or send e-mail to newsletter@info.industry.net
with the subject line: "unsubscribe industry.net-news".






