From: Michael Motyka <mmotyka@lsil.com>
Date: Fri, 23 Oct 1998 03:49:45 +0800
To: k-elliott@wiu.edu
Subject: RE: RE: IP: Fwd: Evaluation of Vehicle Stopping Prototype ("Kill Switch")
Message-ID: <362F83C1.5929@lsil.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Kevin,

Like it or not our society needs a police force. They have a dangerous
and difficult job and I would never contend that the they should risk
their lives unnecessarily. Furthermore, the 'suspect's' behavior is not
defensible. But anyone who classifies a DOG as a HUMAN is DANGEROUS to
other humans.

> Definitely manslaughter, probably 2nd or even 1st degree murder.  In

That's FUCKING NUTS. Take the word manslaughter apart.

int Screwball_Disney_Justice( int victim ){
    int penalty;

    switch ( victim ){ 
        case DOG :
        case MAN :
    	    penalty = ( MAX_PENALTY | BANKRUPTCY );
	    break;

        default : // covers consentual violations
            penalty = BANKRUPTCY;
            break;
    }
    return penalty;
}

> (I believe) every state the union the penalty for shooting a police
> dog is the same as shooting an on duty police officer.  Police dogs
> are effectively classified as deputies.

There are so many damn laws that anyone can be destroyed whenever the
powers that be decide they're inconvenient. So you think a human should
go to the gas chamber for killing a dog? Has the constitutionality of
this been tested in any recent cases? What about the punishment fitting
the crime? A few thousand bucks for a dog vs. a human life?

I like animals and I think they should be treated with some respect but
they are not people. My opinion of the incident was formed by the
treating of a dog as human and the human as animal. 

BTW - what is your opinion of recent proposed laws banning the use of
horses and dogs as food? 

A) Common sense.
B) How could you eat such nice, smart animals?
C) Tyranny of the Disneyfied majority.
D) Total Bullshit.
E) Both C and D.

IMHO - E.

What about cockfights? It usually lasts about 5-15 seconds and the loser
becomes lunch. There is no *significant* difference between buying the
chicken at the grocery and a cockfight. If you say that the difference
is one of enjoying the violence - grow up. Just because the violence on
the grocery store shelf is individually wrapped for your convenience
doesn't alter its nature.

Maybe we need a new law - a license to eat meat. Anyone who doesn't go
through a course on killing their own meat should not be issued a
carnivore permit with different stamps for different animal foods.

Before you write the rant off as rambling crap the theme is - moronic
personification and lack of perspective.

Fuck Walt Disney - 

Because he's been fucking with our heads for decades. Every girl a
princess, every boy a prince, every creature a human soul trapped in an
animal's body.

Mike

rant, rant, rant...




