From: nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)
Date: Mon, 6 Jul 1998 23:35:05 -0700 (PDT)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: no subject!Anti-National ID Bill
Message-ID: <199807070635.IAA08822@basement.replay.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Where is this?  Stalled.  Looks dead in the water.  Any further insights?


H.R.3261 
SPONSOR: Rep Paul (introduced 02/25/98) 

SUMMARY: 

(AS INTRODUCED) 

Privacy Protection Act of 1997 (sic) - Amends title II (Old Age, Survivors
and Disability Insurance) of the Social Security Act and the Internal
Revenue Code to prohibit any Federal, State, or local government agency or
instrumentality from using a social security account number or
any derivative as the means of identifying any individual, except for
specified social security and tax purposes. 

Amends the Privacy Act of 1974 to prohibit any Federal, State, or local
government agency or instrumentality from requesting an individual to
disclose his social security account number on either a mandatory or a
voluntary basis. 

Prohibits any two Federal agencies or instrumentalities from implementing
the same identifying number with respect to any individual, except as
authorized under this Act. 


----
STATUS: Detailed Legislative Status 

                                                 House Actions

Feb 25, 98:
     Referred to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the
Committee on Government Reform and Oversight, for a period to
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
     committee concerned. 
     Mar 2, 98:
          Referred to the Subcommittee on Government Management,
Information and Technology.
Feb 25, 98:
     Referred to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the
Committee on Government Reform and Oversight, for a period to
     be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
     committee concerned.







