From: bill payne <billp@nmol.com>
Date: Tue, 28 Jul 1998 07:20:52 -0700 (PDT)
To: sjmz@hplb.hpl.hp.com
Subject: Fisher's ORDER of July 22, 1998
Message-ID: <35BDDD11.4186@nmol.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain

Tuesday 7/28/98 7:34 AM

John Young

Morales and I met for lunch yesterday.

We formulated our response to Fisher's ORDER of July 22, 1998.

We will get it out this week.

Wayland wants to meet this morning to talk BUSINESS.

I attach what I wrote for Wayland's and his Texas A&M buddies
SBIR proposal.

I am also working on the techie side of the digital FX.

I am getting 8051 machines working AGAIN.  

Thank goodness I wrote a book documenting what we did.

I have to study my own book to TRY TO figure out what is going
wrong!

Our phone conversation when you told me about some SCARY
people you met some years ago reminds me of Sandian James Gosler.

Sandia transferred me into Robert Ewing's division to break electronic
locks for the FBI.

Gosler was then made Ewing's projects boss.

It was at this time that Gosler told me that my abilities were being
wasted
breaking locks for the FBI.

Gosler told me he was going to transfer me to an NSA project.  

I refused.  

NSA requires signed one's civil liberties away to work on their
projects. http://www.jya.com/nsa-sun.htm

After I just met Bob Wayland, Wayland told me to keep away from Gosler.

Wayland told me - and others too - that one of Gosler's female employees
invited Gosler to her home after work.

Gosler raped her, I was told.

Gosler threatened to kill her if she revealed the rape, I was told.

My former department manager, Kent Parsons, and Forth advocate told me
that he thought that Gosler
was "one of Sandia's true crazies."

Gosler is the supervisor to told me

  When Payne balked, his supervisor said Payne "did not choose his jobs.
Rather, Sandia assigns     duties to"  him. http://www.jya.com/whp1.htm

What scares me is that guys like Gosler are working for our government.

Let's all hope for settlement before this matter gets WORSE.

Later
bill


         	WEED KILLER computer interface proposal section 7/27/98 10:11 AM

Solution to controlling and collecting data from the WEED KILLER involves interfacing a personal computer
running a version of the Windows operating system to the WEED KILLER analog/digital hardware.

Windows is not a real-time operating system, therefore  microcontroller controller/collector hardware 
interface must be installed between a Wintel PC and the WEED KILLER hardware.

Essence of the Wintel data collector problem is that Windows 3.x or 9x responds to a hardware interrupt
usually between 70 to 150 microseconds.  In rare occasions the interrupt latency may extend to 1.5 
milliseconds or even longer.  A microcontroller responds to an interrupt in several microseconds.

Wintel hardware controller interface is even more difficult than collection for the reason that the Windows 
operating system only gives control to an application when Windows decides.  In the collection, mode at
least a hardware interrupt signals Windows that the application wants control.  However, the microcontroller
can send the Wintel an interrupt asking the applications code whether there is any message it needs to
send the microcontroller.

Microcontrollers have specialized timers, serial expansion ports and are, therefore, designed to be interfaced to 
analog and digital hardware. 

An 80C32 family microcontroller is proposed for the WEED KILLER application for reasons.

1  The 80C32 will do the job.

2  Multiple vendors of 80C32 guarantee future supply at a competitive price.  Current suppliers include
 Intel, AMD, Winbond, Dallas, Philips, Siemens, OKI,  ATMEL, ... 

3  High-speed parallel port bi-directional IEEE 1284 enhanced capability port 9 (ecp) communications 
hardware between an 80C32 and PC is in the final stage of development.

4  IEEE 1284 hardware drivers are supplied with Windows NT.  Custom assembler dll drivers are available
for 9x and 3.x.

5  A public-domain Forth 8051 operating system hosting a high-level language and interactive assembler with 
complete source code documentation is available on Internet. http://jya.com/f86/whpf86.htm

Hardcover book further documenting 5 is available from Academic Press.
http://www.apcatalog.com/cgi-bin/AP?ISBN=0125475705&LOCATION=US&FORM=FORM2

Only a Wintel machine is required for both hardware and software for the WEED KILLER project.  

Usually a Forth hardware/software development probject on requres a voltmeter, logic probe, and, 
infrequently, an oscilloscope.  Reason  is the INTERACTIVE control of the hardware and software
from a PC keyboard and diagnostic information easily printed to a PC monitor.

Justification for assertion made in the above paragraph comes from Internet.

NASA uses Forth extensively for its space programs. http://groucho.gsfc.nasa.gov/forth/

Ballard used polyForth http://av.yahoo.com/bin/query?p=polyforth&z=2&hc=0&hs=0
to locate wrecks of the Titanic, Bismarck, and Yorktown.
http://www.nationalgeographic.com/features/98/midway

Sun Microsystems workstation boot into Forth then invokes Solaris. http://playground.sun.com/pub/1275/

Adobe Postscript is a version of Forth. 
http://www.mactech.com/articles/mactech/language/forth-postscript.html

Video game software are written mostly in Forth.

The Wintel side of the WEED KILLER project will be most-likely written in a small
amount of assembler interface code and Visual Basic.

While Forth threaded code software technology is extremely valuable in some settings,
it is not in others.

Java is a variation of Forth.  http://www.mrl.nyu.edu/meyer/jvmref/

Future of Java on Wintel machines is unclear at this time.

For example,

  The hottest items among techies is a browser called Opera.   
  This is a $40 shareware program that in speed and compact   
  size buts both IE and Communicator to shame.  It has a slightly   
  different interface from either of the majors - an interface some find    
  refreshing while other find less than useful.  As it's shareware, you can   
  try and then buy if you like it.  One reason for its speed is that it ignores   
  Java - the Internet's Bandwidth Pig (IBP).   
 
  The Rumor Mill by Paul Cassel
  ComputerScene Magazine  July 1998   
   
Forth executes code High-level at about 10% the speed of a compiled high-level
language.

Speed of execution of small applications is not effected by Forth's slow execution.

Reason is that initial code is written in high-level Forth.  

Inner loops are then translated into Forth assembler.

Speed is maintained with the advantage that data structures are created an maintained in
high-level language while the interactive operating system is retained for trouble shooting
both hardware and software problem.

Hardware cost of building the 80C32 the WEED KILLER boards is estimated at $10k.

Hardware design is estimated at 1 month labor at $50/hr for a total of $8k.

Software development on the 80C32 side in Forth and Forth assembler, software on the
Wintel side in Visual Basic and assembler, documentation, and training is estimated to
be 4 months for a total of $32k
   
 /\/\/\
end


Counterfeiting Wiegand Wire Access Credentials
     
                                   Bill Payne
     
                                 October 16,1996
     
                                    Abstract
     
                  Wiegand wire access credentials are easy and
                  inexpensive to counterfeit.
     
        Access Control & Security Systems Integration magazine, October
        1996 [http://www/securitysolutions.com] published the article,
     
             Wiegand technology stands the test of time
     
             by PAUL J. BODELL, page 12
     
             Many card and reader manufacturers offer Wiegand (pronounced
             wee-gand) output.  However, only three companies in the
             world make Wiegand readers.  Sensor Engineering of Hamden
             Conn., holds the patent for Wiegand, and Sensor has licensed
             Cardkey of Simi Valley, Calif., and Doduco of Pforzheim,
             Germany, to manufacture Wiegand cards and readers. ...  A
             Wiegand output reader is not the same thing as a Wiegand
             reader,  and it is important to understand the differences.
     
                In brief, Wiegand reader use the Wiegand effect to
             translate card information around the patented Wiegand
             effect in which a segment of a specially treated wire
             generates an electronic pulse when subjected to a specific
             magnetic field.  If the pulse is generated when the wire is
             near a pick-up coil, the pulse can be detected by a circuit.
             Lining up several rows of wires and passing them by a cold
             would generate a series of pulses.  Lining up two rows of
             wires - calling on row "zero bits" and the other "one bits"
             - and passing them by two different coils would generate two
             series of pulses, or data bits.  These data bits can then be
             interpreted as binary data and used to control other
             devices.  If you seal the coils in a rugged housing with
             properly placed magnets, and LED and some simple circuitry,
             you have a Wiegand reader.  Carefully laminate the special
             wires in vinyl, and artwork, and hot-stamp a number on the
             vinyl, and you have a Wiegand card.
     
             IN THE BEGINNING
     
               Wiegand was first to introduce to the access control
             market in the late 1970s.  It was immediately successful
             because it filled the need for durable, secure card and
             reader technology.
               Embedded in the cards, Wiegand wires cannot be altered or
             duplicated. ...
     
        Bodell's Last statement is incorrect.
     
        Tasks for EASILY counterfeiting Wiegand wire cards are
     
        1    Locate the wires inside the card to read the 0s and 1s.
     
        2    Build an ACCEPTABLE copy of the card.
     
        Bodell's clear explanation of the working of a Wiegand card can
        be visualized
     
             zero row    |     |   |
     
             one row        |          |
     
             binary      0  1  0   0   1
             representation
     
        Solutions to Task 1
     
             A    X-ray the card
     
             B    MAGNI VIEW FILM,  Mylar film reads magnetic fields ...
                  Edmunds Scientific Company, catalog 16N1, page
                  205, C33,447  $11.75
     
        is placed over the top of the Wiegand card.
     
        COW MAGNET,  Cow magnetics allow farmers to trap metal in the
        stomachs of their cows.  Edmunds, page 204, C31,101 $10.75
        is placed under the card.
     
        Location of the wires is easily seen on the green film.
     
        Mark the position of the wires with a pen.
     
        Next chop the card vertically using a shear into about 80/1000s
        paper-match-sized strips.
     
        Don't worry about cutting a wire or two.
     
        Note that a 0 has the pen mark to the top.  A 1 has the pen mark
        at the bottom.
     
        Take a business card and layout the "paper match"-like strips to
        counterfeit the card number desired.
     
        Don't worry about spacing.  Wiegand output is self-clocking!
     
        Tape the "paper-match - like" strips to the business card.
     
        Only the FUNCTION of the card needs to be reproduced!
     
                                     History
     
        Breaking electronic locks was done as "work for others" at Sandia
     
        National Laboratories beginning in 1992 funded by the Federal
        Bureau of Investigation/Engineering Research Facility, Quantico,
        VA.
     
        The FBI opined that this work was SECRET/NATIONAL SECURITY
        INFORMATION.
     
        Details of the consequences of this work are covered in
     
             Fired Worker File Lawsuit Against Sandia
             Specialist Says He Balked When Lab Sought Electronic
             Picklock Software, Albuquer Journal, Sunday April 25, 1993
     
             State-sanctioned paranoia,  EE Times, January 22, 1996
     
             One man's battle,  EE Times, March 22, 1994
     
             Damn the torpedoes,  EE Times, June 6, 1994
     
             Protecting properly classified info,  EE Times, April 11,
             1994
     
             DOE to scrutinize fairness in old whistle-blower cases,
             Albuquerque Tribune, Nov 7 1995
     
             DOE boss accelerates whistle-blower protection,  Albuquerque
             Tribune, March 27, 1996
     
             DOE doesn't plan to compensate 'old' whistle-blowers with
             money, Albuquerque Tribune September 27, 199




