From: Mia Westerholm <Mia.Westerholm@DataFellows.com>
Date: Wed, 4 Feb 1998 01:43:42 -0800 (PST)
To: Crypto-Press-Global@DataFellows.com
Subject: Data Fellows wins another acclaimed award
Message-ID: <3.0.2.32.19980204104606.00bf56bc@smtp.DataFellows.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Data Fellows Ltd.	 Media Release

For immediate release
4 February 1998

DATA FELLOWS WINS ANOTHER ACCLAIMED AWARD

International Success Recognized by Head of State

The developer of F-Secure data security products, Data Fellows Ltd., has
received the President of Finland's Export Award. This award is granted
annually to the most outstanding export companies in the country. This is
the first time a developer of commercial software packages has been granted
the award.

Data Fellows is one of the world's leading developers of data security
products. It has offices in San Jose, California, and Espoo, Finland, as
well as distributors in over 50 countries all around the world. Its
products have been translated to over 30 languages. The company's annual
growth in net sales has been over 100% since it was founded in 1988.  

"The award is a recognition of our status as a leading international data
security development company," says the Chief Executive Officer of Data
Fellows Ltd., Mr. Risto Siilasmaa. "I believe our success is based on two
things: excellent products and high quality services."

The most successful product group of the company is its F-Secure Anti-Virus
products. Data Fellows is the developer of the revolutionary CounterSign
Technology, which enables the use of several scanning engines
simultaneously.  Due to this groundbreaking technology, the theoretical
chances of a virus slipping through to a computer or a network are smaller
than ever. F-Secure Anti-Virus offers unrivalled protection by combining
the best available single scanning engine F-PROT with the AVP anti-virus
engine, which also ranks among the best in the world.

Another fast growing business area for Data Fellows is its F-Secure
cryptography software products. The F-Secure product family uses the best
available military strength encryption and authentification algorithms to
protect confidential data.  F-Secure products are based on the SSH
protocol, which provides a generic transport-layer encryption mechanism for
network connections. The SSH protocol provides both host authentication and
user authentication, together with privacy and integrity protection.

The products of Data Fellows have already won numerous international tests
and competitions, including the 1996 European Information Technology Prize;
Data Communications Magazine's Hot Product of the Year 1997; SVM Magazine,
May 1997, Best Anti-Virus; and SECURE Computing's Editor's Choice.

Data Fellows belongs to an elite group of companies that have a triple-A
rating from Dun&Bradstreet.  Triple-A is the highest possible credit rating.

For further information, please contact:

Data Fellows Ltd.
Mr. Risto Siilasmaa, Chief Executive Officer
Tel. +358-9-859 900
e-mail: Risto.Siilasmaa@DataFellows.com 

or  visit the Data Fellows web site at http://www.DataFellows.com 

Mia.Westerholm@DataFellows.com 
http://www.DataFellows.com

Data Fellows Ltd.
PL 24
FIN-02231 ESPOO, FINLAND
Tel. +358 9 859 900
Fax. +358 9 8599 0599




