From: 1Lqz6S4j2@hjdyfu88.com
Date: Sun, 19 Apr 1998 07:50:55 -0700 (PDT)
To: friend@woe4yemail.com
Subject: This on gets in, anytime, anywhere
Message-ID: <MNVH78J6Np9jw0>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



We've seen them all come and go: Stealth, Rapid Fire, Express Mail,
Desktop, Net Contact, Mach 10, Email Platinum and the list goes on and
on. They work for a while and then they stop working. Oh you can still
get a small percentage of your mail delivered to some place but it is
hardly worth the trouble. 

Well here's one that's been around quite a while working the whole way
through, never stopped getting in anywhere. It's called Mail Pusher.Mail
Pusher reminds me of the old days you know when CD ROM addresses worked.

How Does Mail Pusher work?
Think of it as a super randomizer - It randomizes four fields:
User Name, Domain Name from a list of domains you input, Subject Header
from a list of subject headers you create, and message ID #. This is
more randomizers than any other program has.
It gets in - Anyplace - Anytime, 100%.

What Else does it do:

Server Speedometer - It has a gauge to test server names and even has a
speedometer to tell you how fast the server is functioning at the time.

Auto Reconnect - If you lose your internet dial in connection the
program will automatically dial back in for you and it freezes the
program where it left off until it gets online again and then resumes
sending from where it left off. If you lose a mail server connection it
will also reconnect and resume from where it left off. You can actually
leave the computer running unattended and then come back later knowing
your mail would go out just as if you sat there and watched it all night
long.

Changes While Sending - You can add servers, drop servers, stop some or
all servers freezing the sending of the list in a way that allows the
software to begin from where it stopped at the click of the mouse.

Full Screen Notepad - Write your messages using a full size screen.

There are even more features than this. We even have a functioning demo
that let's you send a few thousand pieces of mail.

The Cost - $395

The alternative - Forget about getting your mail in.

What to do next:

Call: 1 (800) 942-7913

Leave your name and number and we will promptly call you back.
If you want a demo leave in addition to your name and phone an email
address. 

We do have dealer Opportunities Available. To be a dealer one must first
purchase a registered copy of Mail Pusher at retail. All dealers do
their own support.







