From: Global Web Builders <gwb@gwb.com.au>
Date: Tue, 9 Jun 1998 19:38:49 -0700 (PDT)
To: (Recipient list suppressed)
Subject: Media lies exposed
Message-ID: <1.5.4.32.19980610022819.00b397f4@mail.pronet.net.au>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


G'day One Nation supporters in NSW

Channel 9 has embarked on a blatant campaign of misinformation against One
Nation over the last two weeks.

The timing in the lead up to the Queensland State election and the resulting
impact on voters cannot be ignored by ANY Australian who believes in freedom
of speech and the democracy that we hold so dear.

Ray Martin exposed:

http://www.gwb.com.au/un.html

60 Minutes discredited:

http://www.gwb.com.au/60.html

Below is a copy of an article that appeared in Perth's Sunday times recently.

GWB



Scott Balson

Judge says no to black state
by Joe Poprzeonzy

A former Chief Justice of the Australian High Court has urged that any
claims by activists for the creation of a separate Aboriginal nation or
independent black states be rejected.

Sir Harry Gibbs said Arnhein Land, parts of central Australia,, north west
WA, islands in the Torres Strait or off northern Australia would be targeted
for Aboriginal independence.

In a keynote address yesterday at a Perth meeting of the influential
conservative group, the Samuel Griffith Society, he said separate laws were
emerging in Australia to cover black and white Australians.

"There is no doubt that any claims by the Aborigional peoples to determine
their own political status, and to assert a right to sovereignty or
independence, must be rejected as contrary to the interests of Australia as
a whole," Sir Harry said.

"Just as any attempt to put the Aboriginal peoples outside the Australian
nation must be firmly opposed, so should any attempt to grant statehood, or
any degree of autonomy to any particular group or Aboriginal people.

"It would obviously be impracticable... to grant sovereign or dominant power
to the Aboriginal people in areas such as country towns in which persons
entirely of European descent were as numerous as the descendants of the
Aboriginal people, many of whom would themselves have had European ancestors.

"Experience elsewhere has shown that associations of States, Federal or
otherwise, do not endure when one state is composed of persons distinctly
different in race, religion or culture from those of another.

"The future existence of Australia would be put at risk if statehood or any
form of autonomy were granted to small communities chosen on the grounds of
race in areas of great strategic importance to this country."

Sir Harry who was Chief Justice of Australia between 1981 and 1987 said some
people were arguing that there was a right of self-determination within
countries. He said groups were working within the UN for the development of
such doctrines.






