From: info@hot-stock.com
Date: Sat, 7 Nov 1998 05:27:16 -0800 (PST)
To: user@the.internet
Subject: ADV: Hot-Stock Discovers Emerging Entertainment Company
Message-ID: <199811071811.NAA16377@mars.cyber-website.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


To be removed from our mailing list, simply reply with "Remove" in the subject line.

J.P. Morgan, the world famous banker at the American Bankers Convention in 
1903 was asked what was the secret of his success.  He replied "Opportunity
passed me every single second of my life, but I was perceptive enough to
take advantage of these opportunities."  The time is always now!

Companies providing live streaming video content such as Broadcast.Com
have had valuations as high as one billion dollars.  Alternative 
Entertainment is a live streaming video content provider for Adult related
Internet sites.  Adult related sites on the Internet are not only 
profitable but represent the largest segment of E-Commerce and generate 
1.2 billion in annual revenues.

Visit http://www.hot-stock.com for full details.

Alternative Entertainment (OTC BB : BOYS)
Shares Outstanding 3,013,790 
Shares Public Float 980,000 
Number Shareholders 790
Approved by NASD for Trading October 7, 1998

Visit http://www.hot-stock.com for full details.

COMPANY OVERVIEW

Alternative Entertainment, Inc. (the "Company") is engaged in the Adult 
Media and Entertainment Industry. Specifically, the acquisition, 
development and operation of Upscale Gentlemen's Clubs and advanced 
on-line media for E-Commerce on Internet Sites. The Company plans a 
national chain of Upscale Gentlemen's Clubs with the focus on business 
and professional male patrons. The main floor, which caters to patrons 25 
to 39 years of age, will incorporate an evolving theme concept conducive 
to a "party atmosphere" and will operate under the trade name BOYS TOYS. 
Private club facilities of the Boardroom Restaurant will target individuals 
ages 40 to 65 and offer full service dining, an extensive cigar lounge and 
a vast selection of premium wines and liquor.

The clubs will enable the Company to facilitate onsite film production and 
live video streaming of the female entertainers as content to the on-line 
community. Initially the live content will provide revenues via E-Commerce 
on Company owned Web Sites. Such content will later be repackaged and 
distributed through Webmasters and individual owners of the 45,000 
established Adult Sites on the Internet.

The Company has an extremely strong management team comprised of several 
key executives, including the president, of the leading management company 
within the Gentlemen's Club Industry. The management team has over 100 years 
of combined knowledge of the Industry.

 

INDUSTRY HIGHLIGHTS

$4 Billion a year Gentlemen's Club Industry - 25% pretax margins 
3,618,000 average yearly revenue per upscale club - $488 sales per sq. ft.  
36% of all businessmen entertain their clientele at Gentlemen's Clubs 
$1.2 Billion a year Internet Adult Sites - 70% pretax margins 
Media content providers are basically non-existent 
Consolidation play exists for both segments of the industry
 

SELECTIVE FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS

The Company has internally raised $2,000,000 to date through a combination 
of equity and convertible debt. The Company has a San Francisco property 
(15,000 sq. ft.) under construction and an option to purchase two additional 
clubs.


Once again visit http://www.hot-stock.com for full details.


--- Disclaimer ---

This material is being provided by Hot-Stock, an electronic newsletter 
paid by the issuer for publishing the information contained in this report.
Alternative Entertainment, Inc. has paid a consideration of 5,000 shares of 
common stock of Alternative Entertainment, Inc. to Hot-Stock as payment for 
the publication of the information contained in this report.  Hot-Stock 
and its affiliates have agreed not to sell the common stock received as 
payment for its services until November 1, 1998, which date is 15 days 
from the initial dissemination of this report.  After such date, Hot-Stock
may sell such shares.  Because Hot-Stock is paid for its services, there 
is an inherent conflict of interest in Hot-Stock's statements and opinions 
and such statements and opinions cannot be considered independent.  
The information contained in this publication is for informational purposes 
only, and not to be construed as an offer to sell or solicitation of an 
offer to buy any security.  Hot-Stock makes no representation or warrant 
relating to the validity of the facts presented nor does Hot-Stock represent 
or warrant that all material facts necessary to make an investment decision 
are presented above.  All statements of opinions are those of Hot-Stock.  
Hot-Stock relies exclusively on information gathered from public filings 
on featured companies, as well as, in certain circumstances, interviews 
conducted by Hot-Stock of management of featured companies.  Investors should 
not rely solely on the information contained in this publication.  Rather, 
investors should use the information contained in this publication as a 
starting point for conducting additional research on the featured companies in 
order to allow the investor to form his or her own opinion regarding the 
featured companies.  Factual statements contained in this publication are 
made as of the date stated and they are subject to change without notice.  
Hot-Stock is not a registered investment adviser, broker or a dealer.  
Investment in the companies reviewed is speculative and extremely high-risk 
and may result in the loss of some or all of any investment made in 
Alternative Entertainment, Inc.  This publication contains forward-looking 
statements that are subject to risk and uncertainties that could cause 
results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking 
statements.  These forward-looking statements represent the judgment of 
Alternative Entertainment, Inc. as of the date of this publication.  The Company 
disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements.  





