From: jrsd3424@hotmail.com
Date: Sat, 11 Jul 1998 12:09:19 -0700 (PDT)
To: jrs3453@hotmail.com
Subject: News Release....
Message-ID: <9807091526.AA15333@pharmdec.wustl.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


NEWS RELEASE

NuOncology Labs Inc

Symbol: NLAB
Trades:  OTC BB

July 9, l998

NUONCOLOGY LABS COMPLETES ACQUISITION

Virginia Beach, VA - NuOncology Labs, Inc.
(OTC BB: NLAB), a Florida Corporation, announced
today that it has acquired all the outstanding and 
issued shares of NuOncology Labs, Inc. (Nulab),
a private Virginia Corporation.  The new combined
entity will maintain the name NuOncology Labs Inc.

NuOncology Labs, Inc's Senior Medical Director is
R. Michael Williams, Ph.D, the co-founder, Senior
Medical Director and Chief Medical Officer of Cancer
Treatment Centers of America.  The company's 
Scientific Director is Fraser S. Baker, Ph. D., co-
founder and Director of Baker-Sanger Laboratory,
Inc., a Houston based chemosensitivity testing
laboratory.

NuOncology Labs, Inc. participates in the multi-
billion dollar cancer treatment industry by supporting
the research and marketing of a promising cancer
treatment along with the delivery of predictive tests
for the optimization of contemporary cancer 
treatment.  Both activities could greatly improve
clinical outcomes while reducing treatment costs.



NuOncology Labs Inc has a "dramatically effective 
cancer treatment" in trials with over 200 patients
at this time.  This project as well as NuOncology
Labs Inc is being lead by a "very distinguished
research and management team".

To receive a complete investor package on 
NuOncology Labs Inc, as well as a FREE 
subscription to our newsletter that profiles
specially selected companies in the "New
Economy" we feel have the potential for
tremendous growth potential PLEASE CLICK
HERE:

Free Info

Please note that by sending an e-mail to this
address you are requesting additional information
on NuOncology Labs Inc as well as a FREE
no obligation subscription to our newsletter.
You may unsubscribe at any time.

We profile these companies at the time they
initially go public - before they have been
discovered by 'the Street' and financial media
and already doubled or tripled in price.





end.





