From: "William J. Hartwell" <billh@ibag.com>
Date: Wed, 9 Sep 1998 15:56:45 +0800
To: Ryan Lackey <cypherpunks@Algebra.COM
Subject: Re: radio net
In-Reply-To: <E0zGSWY-0002wH-00@arianrhod.systemics.ai>
Message-ID: <3.0.5.32.19980909005149.0081d100@mail.xroads.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



At 02:29 PM 9/8/98 -0400, Ryan Lackey wrote:
>Is anyone else interested in setting up a radio net......<snip>


I have been thinking allot about this over the last couple of months. 
I have subscribed to a packet radio mailing list
(linux-hams@vger.rutgers.edu (majordomo@vger.rutgers.edu)) just to lurk so
I could get a feel for what it 
took to set such a network up. 

Much of my family are hams and have dabbled in packet radio at one time or
another. 
They say once set up it works well (slow but dependable) and is an ideal
way to 
carry non-real-time traffic in an emergency.

As far as a secure network, that's why I lurk in this list. :-)

If such a thing should ever be outlawed or restricted most Hams I know are
law abiding 
citizens and would more than likely conform (No Ham should take offence to
this, its 
meant with the best intentions and respect). 

I think a radio network linked to the Amateur networks sending secure
packets, 
using tunneling or maybe just encrypted traffic (There may be some FCC
rules regarding this.
 I don't want to break any laws so am still looking into this part.) with
nodes connected to the internet (or other network as well ... Remember
FIDOnet) would be a good idea. 

The Ham networks will probably stand up well in the case of a national
emergency. That's something these folks are real good at.

In the off chance that the telecommunications Infrastructure becomes
unavailable due to political or other reasons, some of which have been
discussed quite often here. This network could break off and stand on its
own carrying important traffic for those whose need to communicate with
loved ones and business associates would be worth whatever risk might
befall them.

If Y2K turns out to be a real problem (as I believe it might) or something
else happens. I plan on still being able to communicate with my loved ones;
business associates, and hopefully still get this list. :-)

I plan on adding another dedicated LINUX box for this in the near future
and will be looking for others with the same types of concerns to link with.  

>I think the cost would be something like $1-5k per station, and it could
>be done in a fairly turnkey fashion. 

I think it would be considerably less money wise, and still could be done
properly.

I would be interested in hearing anyone's thoughts on this and maybe
communicating with other like-minded individuals off list. Since this list
seems to have attracted a lot of attention from the authorities as of late. 

I wonder what the ratio of cypherpunks to spooks (IRS, FBI, NSA, British
Intelligence, Government informants, and assorted other agent types) on
this list is now :-)

Would all the spooks please raise your hands?   

You... in the back listening quietly....  Is that you Inspector Gordon? :-)


--
Bill H.
billh@ibag.com




--
					William J. Hartwell
					   (602)987-8436
					  Queencreek, Az.

billh@ibag.com			billh@interdem.com		billh@hartwell.net




