From: "Vladimir Z. Nuri" <vznuri@netcom.com>
Date: Wed, 16 Sep 1998 01:57:14 +0800
To: cypherpunks@cyberpass.net
Subject: SNET: National ID Cards- world wide phenomenon
Message-ID: <199809160658.XAA22977@netcom13.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain




From: jeremy.compton@stonebow.otago.ac.nz (Jeremy Compton)
Subject: SNET: National ID Cards- world wide phenomenon
Date: Tue, 15 Sep 1998 14:03:47 +1200
To: snetnews@world.std.com


->  SNETNEWS  Mailing List

http://www.privacy.org/pi/activities/i dcard/"
National ID Cards

Many countries are actively considering adopting national id cards for a
variety of functions. These
include the United States, United Kingdom and Canada. Over the past seven
years, Privacy International
has been at the forefront of opposing these proposals in a number of
countries including Australia, New
Zealand, the Phillippines, Thailand, the United Kingdom and the United States.

These pages are an attempt to bring together materials based on PI members'
experiences on opposing
the proposals. While each jurisdictions may have local variations, the
themes remain remarkably similar
no matter where the proposals are heard. Our intention here is to discuss
the evidence at an international
level and to promote debate about the claims made about such card systems.



Privacy International Materials

       Privacy International's ID Card FAQ. Frequently Asked Questions
report on id cards. (7000 words)

       Campaigns of Opposition to ID Cards. A review and analysis of the
successful campaign to kill the Australia
       Card in 1987.

       Personal views from around the world on ID cards.


The UK Government ID Card Proposal

       The UK ID card proposal was quietly set aside in 1996.

       UK Home Office Green Paper "Identity Cards - A Consultation"

       Home Office press release on id cards, 24 January 1996.

       Central Computer and Telecommunications Agency report, Smart cards:
Opportunities for public sector
       applications.

       Response of the Data Protection Registrar to the Government's
proposals for Identity Cards.

       The Green Paper on Identity Cards: A response from the Centre for
Computing and Social Responsibility by
       Simon Rogerson.

       "Identity Crisis: why ID cards are a solution looking for a problem"
by Liz Parratt from Liberty.

       "IDENTITY CARDS: Data protection implications" by Chris Pounder,
Data Protection News (UK).

       State of the Nation articles on national ID cards.

       Social, Legal and Professional Aspects of Computing ID Cards.

       "Britain Discussing National ID Card System", Newsbytes, 03/28/95.


Other Reports and Materials

       "TOUCHING BIG BROTHER: How biometric technology will fuse flesh and
machine" by Simon Davies.

       "Smart Cards: Big Brother's Little Helpers" by The Privacy Committee
of New South Wales, Australia.

       Chip-Based ID: Promise and Peril by Rober Clarke, Australian
National Univeristy.

       Human Identification in Information Systems: Management Challenges
and Public Policy Issues by Roger
       Clarke.

       Identification, Anonymity and Pseudonymity in Consumer Transactions:
A Vital Systems Design and Public
       Policy Issue by Roger Clarke.

       1991 Hungarian Supreme Court decision stricking down use of ID numbers.

       Smart Card Magazine, The Birth of Smart Cards: 1980.

       Electronic Privacy Information Center's pages on current national ID
card proposals in the United States.

News Stories

       TORONTO STAR, February 9th, 1996; Lead Editorial: HARRIS SHOULD
SCRAP UNIVERSAL ID
       CARD.

       `Smart cards' will soon be approved, says health policy committee by
chairperson by TOM ARNOLD, The
       Edmonton Journal.

       Canadian Privacy boss raps ID cards, The Canadian Press, July 15, 1995.

       Privacy commissioner in the dark about ID cards: Wants controls put
on access, The Vancouver Province,
       September 27, 1995.

       AsiaWeek, ID Cards Introduced in Philippines.

       Greece to Demand Religion on National ID Cards, 2 May 1993.

       Unisys press release on Spain national ID card project.




Return to Privacy International's Home Page

Last updated July 16, 1997.



-> Send "subscribe   snetnews " to majordomo@world.std.com
->  Posted by: jeremy.compton@stonebow.otago.ac.nz (Jeremy Compton)




