From: bill payne <billp@nmol.com>
Date: Fri, 10 Jul 1998 07:31:34 -0700 (PDT)
To: jy@jya.com
Subject: FOIA, Navajo code talkers, Rule 54(b) and PROGRESS
Message-ID: <35A624DB.328F@nmol.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Friday 7/10/98 7:39 AM

John Young

I am reading http://www.jya.com/nsa-foia-req.htm	

This FOIA stuff appears to be catchy.

Will you do a pro se lawsuit in case NSA does not come across?  

There is some great stuff on the web on on that subject.
http://jya.com/whpfiles.htm

I just found

navahode.htm       Navaho Code Expert Dies                          
June 26, 1998 http://www.jya.com/navahode.htm

NavaJo is spelled different in the southwest.

Carpet intaller George Chavez junior told me yesterday that his father
George senior was a code talker.

I told Chavez I would send him a copy of what you posted.

Chavez told me that Carl Gorman, RC Gorman's father
http://www.iwaynet.net/~sabrina/gorman.html
was also a code talker.

Chavez commented that RC is a 'bit wierd.'

Chavez is an UNMISTAKABLE Navajo native American -  complete with LONG
pony tail.

Native Americans in the southwest frequently have TWO names.  One an
anglo or hispanic
name and one their native American name.  Like Star Road or White Sun
made famous by Taos NM
artist Blumenschein.

I'll have to ask Chavez if he has another name.

   Life is to short to do everything in line.
   I lead multiple lives, that is why I have more adventures.
   
   Adam Fortunate Eagle, New Mexican, Sunday, 21 Aug 94

Morales and I believe we are going to win our lawsuits a result of
technical legal mistakes made both in district court and the two SHOW
CAUSE orders I mailed to you.  Partial rulings can cause problems.

Rule 54(b) is VERY COMPLEX.

Life is ABOUT back to normal.

First there was PATTY'S floor tile project in about March.

Then the trip to Austin to see our kids and new granddaughter

Then there was THE FLOOD.  Which was CAUSED BY A MICROCONTROLLER
SOFTWARE
DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION ERROR - blunder!  And perhaps some DEFICIENT
washing machine hardware design too.

Next was the about month delay caused by getting the Allstate insurance
adjuster to come around to the carpet sellers, our, and the Allstate 
insurance agent way of thinking about how much Allstate should pay.

Next was the several week delay ordering the carpet.

Last Thursday the downstairs carpet got installed.

Thursday, also, I spent in the ER - which stopped the Friday carpet
completion project.

So yesterday the carpet installers finished.  

Looks GREAT!  And both the carpet installers were real nice guys.

And some legal filings while all of the other above was going on.

So the next two orders of business are

	1  finish the digital FX
	2  conclude our legal fights with SETTLEMENT - before things get WORSE.

On your NSA FOIA I suggest that you seek a waiver of fees since the
material you seek 
benefits the public.

I just saw http://www.jya.com/crypto.htm

  DoE: Pay Bill Payne   
  DoJ: Free Jim Bell 
  DoJ: Free Kevin Mitnick 

THANK YOU.  

Best
bill






