From: TruthMongrer <tm@dev.null>
Date: Tue, 24 Mar 1998 17:21:28 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: CIA Trained Gorilla Femnists
Message-ID: <35185C90.418F@dev.null>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Male Gorilla, Released to Mate
               with Females, Drops Dead

               AP
               24-MAR-98

TOKYO (AP) The excitement, or perhaps the pressure, apparently was too
much for Sultan. The 28-year-old male gorilla, specially moved to a 
cage to mate with three females, instead dropped dead. 

The 400-pound lowland gorilla ran around briefly and played with his 
new friends Monday, then suddenly collapsed, apparently after suffering 
a heart attack, said Kunihiko Yasui, head of animal breeding at Kyoto 
Municipal Zoo.

~~~

Reports from non-mainstream news sources indicate that one of the
female gorillas was carrying an umbrella which was nowhere to be
found when invesigators searched the cage after the mysterious
death of the male gorilla.
Gertrude Stein, denying that an elite corps of techno-femnists
is involved with providing CIA BlackOps training for female
subjects of a digital-implant experiment being conducted by
the NSA, merely said, "What is good for the goose is not always
necessarily good for the gorilla."

Anonymous sources from the CypherPunks Distributed Mailing List
indicated that the assassination was coordinated by Blanc Weber,
a list member who disguises her hidden agenda of MeatSpace 
violence by constantly admonishing list members for expressing
the results of the excessive male hormones surging through their
potential-rapist bodies.
The sources cited Weber's previous support of Zsa-Zsa Grubor as
proof of her involvement with radical femnist movements whose
goals are secretly financed by Wonder Bra, Wonder Woman, and
Wonder Bread.

Mainstream media sources continue to claim that this post is 
nothing more than the psychotic babblings of a FrostBack To
Be Named Later. However, this view is obvious in error, or an
intelligent person such as yourself would not stil be reading
this post, eh?

TruthFemnist,
"And, after my operation, I will learn to spell 'feminist' correctly."





