From: Missouri FreeNet Administration <measl@mfn.org>
Date: Wed, 23 Dec 1998 04:55:26 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Returned post for press-english-technical@lists.datafellows.com (fwd)
Message-ID: <Pine.BSF.3.96.981222134958.2824J-110000@greeves.mfn.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain

They are using the EzMLM Pgm???  What does *that* tell you???

Yours, 
J.A. Terranson
sysadmin@mfn.org

--
If Governments really want us to behave like civilized human beings, they
should give serious consideration towards setting a better example:
Ruling by force, rather than consensus; the unrestrained application of
unjust laws (which the victim-populations were never allowed input on in
the first place); the State policy of justice only for the rich and 
elected; the intentional abuse and occassionally destruction of entire
populations merely to distract an already apathetic and numb electorate...
This type of demogoguery must surely wipe out the fascist United States
as surely as it wiped out the fascist Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.

The views expressed here are mine, and NOT those of my employers,
associates, or others.  Besides, if it *were* the opinion of all of
those people, I doubt there would be a problem to bitch about in the
first place...
--------------------------------------------------------------------


---------- Forwarded message ----------
Date: 22 Dec 1998 15:51:33 -0000
From: press-english-technical-help@lists.datafellows.com
To: measl@mfn.org
Subject: Returned post for press-english-technical@lists.datafellows.com

Hi! This is the ezmlm program. I'm managing the
press-english-technical@lists.datafellows.com mailing list.

I'm sorry, the list moderators have failed to act on your post.
Thus, I'm returning it to you. If you feel that this is in error,
please repost the message or contact a list moderator directly.

--- Enclosed, please find the message you sent.



To: cypherpunks@toad.com,       Marita Nasman-Repo <Marita.Nasman-Repo@DataFellows.com>,       pirkka.palomaki@DataFellows.com, ari.hypponen@DataFellows.com
Subject: Re: MEDIA RELEASE: Data Fellows Joins the Microsoft Security  Partners Program
From: Missouri FreeNet Administration <measl@mfn.org>
Date: Tue, 15 Dec 1998 12:23:32 -0600 (CST)
cc: press-pr@lists.datafellows.com, df-pr-us@lists.datafellows.com,       press-english-technical@lists.datafellows.com,       press-english-general@lists.datafellows.com
Delivered-To: moderator for press-english-technical@lists.datafellows.com
In-Reply-To: <3.0.32.19981215170136.0098ad60@smtp.datafellows.com>
Posted-Date: Tue, 15 Dec 1998 12:23:32 -0600 (CST)

On Tue, 15 Dec 1998, Marita Nasman-Repo Blathered:

:Helsinki, Finland, December 15, 1998-- Data Fellows, the global leader in
:developing data security software solutions, has been invited to join the
:Microsoft Security Partners Program.
"Invited"?   You mean they finally accepted your application, right?

:The Microsoft Security Partners Program
:(http://www.microsoft.com/security/partners) provides customers with the
:tools and information they need to establish, test and maintain effective
:information security for their computing infrastructure. 
By providing real-life examples of how NOT to implement security
practices.  By simply purchasing these failed products (at only *slightly*
exhorbitant prices), so can learn by example: see for yourself just how
easy it is to completely botch a security directive.  Witness how
thoroughly you can mangle password encryption.  Learn what major design
flaws *really* look like!

:The program brings
:together software manufacturers, security consultants and security
:trainers, making it even easier for customers to provide robust security in
:their Microsoft Windows NT operating system-based networks.
Just as soon as it becomes available?  Oh, BTW, when *will* that be???

:Three Data Fellows products are included in the Microsoft Security Partners
:Program. 
I'm sorry.  But don't worry, if you keep working on it, you'll be able to
sell it to a *real* vendor someday...

:F-Secure Workstation Suite consists of malicious code detection
:and removal as well as unobtrusive file and network encryption,
Very unobtrusive, I'm sure!  Does the attacker even know it's there?

: all
:integrated into a policy-based management architecture. 
Hmmm... Somebody's been playing with their buzzword-generator again :)

:F-Secure VPN+
:provides a software-based, IPSec/IKE VPN solution scaleable for large
:corporate networks as well as remote and small office networks.
Was that IPSec/IKE, or IPSec-like?  I vote for the latter.  It's just like
IPSec, but without wasting all those nasty cycles on dumb things - like
encryption: it's *so much* more user-friendly when it doesnt [further]
slow the speed of new window open/closes...

: F-Secure
:FileCrypto is the first and only product to integrate strong real-time
:encryption directly into the Windows NT-based file system.
Could be, we already know that Micro$loth has *no clue* when it comes to
these things (Right Paul???)...

:"Microsoft is pleased to include Data Fellows as part of its Security
:Partners Program," said Karan Khanna, Windows NT Security Product Manager
:at Microsoft Corp.
Of course you are.  Micro$loth would be pleased to welcome Joseph Stalin
into the Security Partners Program.

: "This program will help our mutual customers develop and
:deploy secure solutions built on the Windows NT platform."
Just as soon as they can get Windows NT to run faster than a 6809 with 1k
of 512ns RAM and a single parallel port for IO ;-)

:"The relationship with Microsoft shows Data Fellows' commitment to improve
:the native security of standalone and networked computers with a
:comprehensive, centrally managed suite of security services," said Risto
:Siilasmaa, president and CEO of Data Fellows. 
You're *that* worried about Micro$loth's current offerings, huh?
Personally, I'd let them fend for themselves, but...

:"Data Fellows is committed to
:providing globally available 
And this *IS* your *FIRST* priority, isn't it?

:seamless security for Windows users; security
:that is strong yet easy to manage and economical."
Great!  Let me know when it's available!

:Data Fellows is one of the world's leading developers of data security
:products.
Really?  Who decided that?  Do you have any research to back up this
awe-inspiring claim?

: The company develops, markets and supports anti-virus, data
:security and cryptography software products for corporate computer
:networks.
That's only because most of the private networks already know better.


Yours, 
J.A. Terranson
sysadmin@mfn.org

--
If Governments really want us to behave like civilized human beings, they
should give serious consideration towards setting a better example:
Ruling by force, rather than consensus; the unrestrained application of
unjust laws (which the victim-populations were never allowed input on in
the first place); the State policy of justice only for the rich and 
elected; the intentional abuse and occassionally destruction of entire
populations merely to distract an already apathetic and numb electorate...
This type of demogoguery must surely wipe out the fascist United States
as surely as it wiped out the fascist Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.

The views expressed here are mine, and NOT those of my employers,
associates, or others.  Besides, if it *were* the opinion of all of
those people, I doubt there would be a problem to bitch about in the
first place...
--------------------------------------------------------------------








