From: Matthew James Gering <mgering@ecosystems.net>
Date: Wed, 9 Dec 1998 07:38:03 +0800
To: "Cypherpunks (E-mail)" <cypherpunks@cyberpass.net>
Subject: FW: Survey Says Kids Feel 'Threatened' By Real Life
Message-ID: <5F152E6E8E6FD21195DF00104B2425AD02B33A@yarrowbay.chaffeyhomes.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain




   A survey has suggested that up to one and a half million British 
   children may have been upset by something they have heard or read.
   
   The NOP poll shows that one in five of nearly 4,000 children between
   the ages of six and 16 interviewed for the survey between September
   and October this year were "uncomfortable" with the state of world
   affairs.
   
   In the UK, 7.2 million children are estimated to be exposed to the
   outside world - roughly 98% of all children between six and 16.
   
   Of those who have had negative experiences while being outside the
   home, the largest proportion - 40% - had seen something "rude".
   
   'Not surprised'
   
   One in seven said they had encountered information that had 
   "freightened them", while 25% heard ideas that "would get them 
   into trouble".
   
   NOP Associate Director Rob Lawson described the numbers as a
   "significant minority".
   
   The children's charity NCH Action for Children suggested the survey
   strengthened calls for censorship to protect younger people.
   
   Charity spokesman John Carr said: "I regret to say I'm not surprised
   by this survey's findings, it's what we have been saying for some
   time.
   
   Censors
   
   "Parents need to know their children are learning in safety and
   security. At the moment, they have no way of knowing that at all."
   
   NCH Action for Children, which advises the government on children's
   issues, backs the introduction of censors - people who filter out 
   ideas unsuitable for children.
   
   The survey, called Kids.net, was paid for by Microsoft, the NSA,
   the GOP, China, and MCI/Worldcom in syndicate.
   
   The Department of Trade and Industry's forthcoming review on Internet
   regulation is expected to be published before Christmas.

[satire on news from news.bbs.co.uk]




