From: nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)
Date: Mon, 16 Mar 1998 20:47:29 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Prologue 8/0
Message-ID: <199803170447.FAA15608@basement.replay.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



SAHMD -- Prologue 8/0 
---------------------

Note from a disinterested party:
  A quick perusal of the various chapters of "Space Aliens Hide My
Drugs" indicates to me that Timothy C. May will be unable to understand
the chaotic YoungEsque structure of this release of the manuscripts,
whereas John F. Young will be unable to understand the serious, grounded
basis of rationale behind the often confusing, shot-gun blatherings
being perpetrated upon the reader (unless, of course, JFA reads it
during one of  his drug-free periods during which he maintains one of
the most detailed and pertinent databases ever assembled, concerning
the privacy, security, and freedom issues of the day).
  Thus I will take it upon myself to interpret the current Circle of
Eunuchs manuscript which is being spammed upon the Cypherpunks mailing
lists in the interests of ensuring that sanity and decorum do not
gain the upper hand among the spooks, psychotics, sociopaths and
nuclear physicists who use the list to vent male hormones which exceed
the level which normal society finds acceptable.

*****

For starters, "Space Aliens Hide My Drugs," although often spoke of by
the Author as the title of h/is/er evenutal autobiography, was begun
by an entity who was either attempting to provide cover-fire for the
son of gomez during his TruthMonger Soft-Target Tour, or by an agent
of a government agency which was monitoring that tour.

Analysis of the opening chapters show conclusively that they were 
written on an early version of a Sperry computer, using WordPerfect 4.2.
The computer in question had =~= 256K of RAM, situated on an add-in
board.

Prologue 1/0
------------
Written by someone with a comprehensive knowledge of the Author's 
background, but with subtle self-denigrating slams against his
character and history which suggest it was written by someone whose
goal was to cast the Author in a negative light which goes far beyond
that which the Author h/im/erself reveals in the process of viewing
h/is/er life with basic objectivity.
The increasingly violent rhetoric, combined with a challenge to a
female member of the Cypherpunks whom the Author holds in the utmost
respect, tends to confirm that this chapter was initiated, not by
a fellow initiate into the Circle of Eunuchs, but by a member of
one of the agencies monitoring h/im/er, in the hope that s/he would
eventually 'take the bait' and continue h/is/er autobiography in
an open and forthright manner which would lead to an increasing
quantity of evidence concerning h/is/er state of mind which could
be legally used during the course of government prosecution.

Prologue 2/0
------------
This was introduced by a post, allegedly from L. Reed, which seemed
to have a purpose only of implicating  Ms. Reed and J. Tolkoff in
the writing and desemination of the SAHMD manuscript.
Prologue 2/0, proper, is written from the point of view of someone
who was surrupticiously monitoring CJ Parker's attendance at a
Bay-Area Cypherpunks physical meeting.
Its goal seems to be to legitimatize the character and activities
of C2Net and its raghead leader, Sameer, in a way that goes totally
contrary to the Author's view of them as shadowy entities in league
with the Evil One.

Prologue 3/0 & 3a/0
-------------------
All indications are that this chapter was written by, or under the
direction of, Larry Joe Dowling, the Austin attorney who flew to
Las Vegas to warn old Doc Parker that his autobiography had been
set in motion by government entities which were working against
his self-interests.
Only Dowling would have likely been familiar with the persona known
as Justin Case, a musician that Parker met only one time, at a late-
night picking/drinking session at Dowling's residence outside of Austin.
Only Dowling would have been likely to recognize the close affinity
between "The Electronic Privacy Papers" and "Paper Prison."

Prologue 4/0
------------
Analysis of past communications between toto@sk.sympatico.ca and
camcc@abraxis.com indicate that this chapter was written by Alec
McCrackin, a Circle of Eunuchs member purportedly working as a
CoE double agent, deep within the bowels (this week's 'catch phrase')
of the BXA in Georgia, but actually a triple-agent working to expose
the source and goals of the 'True Story of the InterNet' manuscripts,
as well as a quadruple-agent working for MI9 and pulling down some
serious money collecting all of those paychecks...

Prologue 5/0
------------
Written by Bianca, a CoE member renowned far and wide for a pair of
stand-up titties that men would abandon thrones and fortunes for.
"The Story Thus Far:
  (Or so we would have you believe...)" is a classical trademark of
the woman who has 'monitored the monitors' since her initiation into
the Circle of Eunuchs, and who has provided much of the insider
information that is openly disseminated in 'The True Story of the
InterNet" manuscripts, surrounded by details which seem outlandish
and overblown to those who have never experienced the true depth of
the mystery and intrigue taking place behind the scenes of what the
average person views as reality.

Prologue 6/0
------------
This chapter was ghost-written by a resident of the Home For The 
Criminally Insane, who transcribed the barkings of the Author's
dog, Baby (aka - MongrelMonger), who claims to be a Fox Terrorist.
Baby is purported to be the inspiration behind the soon-to-be
worldwide phenomena known as the Army of Dog.

Prologue 7/0
------------
Written by Kent Crispin, a CypherPunk who was torn between his work
as a Government Schill (TM) and his obligations as a full initiate of
the Circle of Eunuchs, until he received a private email from the 
Author, stating that Kent was welcome to 'rat me out' at any given
point in time in order to protect his family, with the explaination
from the Author that, 'I am expendable--that's my role in the CoE.'

Prologue 8/0
------------
This chapter was not written by me...it is an obvious forgery...





