From: Global Web Builders <vjb@gil.com.au>
Date: Mon, 6 Jul 1998 13:56:05 -0700 (PDT)
To: (Recipient list suppressed)
Subject: Update on status of Pauline Hanson's One Nation web sites
Message-ID: <1.5.4.32.19980706204122.00729e64@mail.ipswich.gil.com.au>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


G'day One Nation supporters in NSW

I am Scott Balson, Pauline Hanson's web master and the moderator of the now
defunct discussion forum mentioned in a recent news letter. You will notice
that I am not using my normal "gwb" email.

I apologise for the demise of the very successful discussion forum, but may
I say that nothing surprises me any more.

The forum was run on a third party web site and the owner took two weeks
leave on Sunday - the day before the forum "shut down".

Quite simply it was hacked by an unknown person because it was so
successful. This is the face of free speech in Australia. NOTE: The hacker
was not the site owner.

To make matters worse, last Friday, the One Nation pages went down after the
ISP we used, Pronet, had their link closed by Optus because of financial
difficulties... we have taken remedial action and hope to have the site
fully operational in the next 48 hours at:

http://www.gwb.com.au/onenation

The last few weeks I have seen, heard of and personally faced a growing
number of personal attacks aimed at those involved in the One Nation party.
In my case this has included being followed while driving my car (last week)
and phone calls from the media wanting me to comment on "anonymous",
unsubstantiated and trumped-up allegations that were made personally against
me. (For example, when questioned about his call to me on Sunday Rory
Callinan from "The (News Limited) Courier Mail" confirmed that they would
not normally bother with allegations made on this basis but my role within
the party had made an anonymous allegation "newsworthy" and worth pursuing.)

This follows the party's success in the Queensland state elections.

May I just say that this makes me realise that One Nation is obviously
having a big impact on those who have got the most to lose and through their
actions they have just increased my resolve to do all that I can to ensure
Pauline Hanson and the party get a "fair go" on the Internet even if this
right is denied by the mainstream media.

The events and incidents against the party will continue to be covered on my
Australian National News of the Day (anotd) which should be live again soon
(also temporarily closed because of the Pronet collapse) The address for
anotd is: http://www.gwb.com.au/gwb/news

The agenda for getting One Nation back on-line and the discussion form up
and running again is as follows:

One Nation web site and anotd fully operation by Friday 10th July (probably
before)
http://www.gwb.com.au/onenation

Discussion forum (through GWB) fully operational by end of July.

I will keep this group informed when the discussion forum is again
operational and once again apologise for the temporary loss of our forum in
which to discuss issues.

Please do not respond to this temporary account unless it is on a matter of
urgency.

The gwb@gwb.com.au email address will be up and running again by this weekend.

GWB



Scott Balson
Pauline Hanson's Web Master





