From: Spammer <spam@dev.null>
Date: Fri, 20 Mar 1998 18:10:17 -0800 (PST)
To: paulmerrill@acm.org
Subject: New Champion! / Re: Complaints about spam are TRUE theft of services
In-Reply-To: <199803202343.PAA09849@toad.com>
Message-ID: <351331C7.1CE4@dev.null>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Paul H. Merrill wrote:
> 
> While I do not completely agree with the tone of the comments, nor do I
> buy the specific numbers involved, I have found that the mouthing off
> about the terror of Spam to take more bandwidth than the (EMail) spam
> itself does.  I also fear legislative involvement much more than the
> spam itself.

While TruthMonger's initial post, "Does Spamming Really Exist," was
obviously an attempt to lure Ross Wright out of the lair from which
he lurks, furtively monitoring the CypherPunks list, his secondary 
goal was undoubtedly to laugh up his sleeve at the posters who would
inundate the list with a quantity of yea-nay's which would vastly
exceed the amount of spam which is passed on to subscribers of the
unfiltered toad.com CypherPunks list.

A communique from TruthMonger, shortly before he transmorgatized into
his 'Spammer' persona, informed me that he felt Paul Merrill had 
earned the title of Chief Spammer SpokesPerson/Champion, despite the
heartfelt compliment that Ross Wright gave TM in one of his missives.

The concept of the spam-complainer being the true spammer on any 
given mailing list, by virtue of setting off a mountain of posts
which are in all likelyhood off-topic and meant to appeal only
to the knee-jerk reactions of jerks with knees, is completely in
line with the theory that the only posts which are truly off-topic
on the CypherPunks lists are those which complain about off-topic
posts.

There is a case currently before the Supreme Court of Canada which
is continuing, despite the original plaintiffs having settled out
of court, without government intervention, which will decide 
whether gay couples will be allowed to get butt-fucked under the
same vague, arbitrary and capricious laws as those which are
used to ruin the lives of the heterosexual citizens.

Even radical femnists have had the common sense not to petition
the government to ensure women equal representation in the gas
chambers of America.
Radical anti-spammers should take note...

Spammer






