From: bill payne <billp@nmol.com>
Date: Wed, 2 Sep 1998 08:38:29 -0700 (PDT)
To: softwar@softwar.net
Subject: Sandia president C Paul Robinson's August 19, 1998 view graphs
Message-ID: <35ED654B.189@nmol.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Wednesday 9/2/98 8:34 AM

John Young

I mailed you 20 pages of view graphs for Sandia president C Paul
Robinson's
August 19, 1998 speech

  "Looking to the future:  A more dangerous world is appearing."

Your readers will likely value the opportunity to ATTEMPT to find
out is what on Robinson's and the US government's mind.

Money is at the heart of motivation, of course.

If the US is NOT firing tomahawk missiles SOMEWHERE, then this
is BAD for BUSINESS.  No PR s being written for replacements.

  The Tomahawk cruise missile, acquired when Raytheon bought Hughes
Aircraft from General Motors     Corp. in December for $9.5 billion.
Nearly 300 were fired in the Gulf War at Iraqi missile sites,   command
centers, weapons caches, and other targets.  A new version is guided by
global positioning   satellites, a network of 24 satellites fixed high
above the earth and used for navigation.  

  In addition, a General Accounting Office report released last year
said that 
  manufacturers' claims for the Tomahawk, Paveway, and other weapons
were overstated.  
  Boston Globe, Feb. 18, 1998 

   Bill Clinton's $100 Million Crusade Against Ken Starr

                                        by Charles R. Smith

      August was an expensive month for the U.S. taxpayer. For example,
Bill Clinton shot $100            million on August 20, 1998 at
"terrorist" sites in Sudan and Afghanistan. The 79 Tomahawk          
cruise missiles signaled a new "war" that Bill Clinton decided to
declare on terrorism and not       to be confused with the $100 million
White House "war" on Ken Starr. 

      The cost? Tomahawks cost about $1.4 to $2.1 million each,
depending on the model. Moreover,       the Tomahawk price tag does not
reflect the price of conducting the strike such as logistics,      
planning, communications, ship, fuel, and sailor time. If one were to
add in these figures -       the actual strike cost about $1 billion.
...

      The Tomahawk strike also shows the Clinton administration is as
number minded in its war as       the Johnson administration was in
Vietnam. Million dollar missiles on remote Afghan camps are       likely
to be no more successful than B-52s against the Ho Chi Minh trail. There
is an       over-emphasis of "damage assessment" with no regard to
whether the bodies were enemy soldiers       or innocent bystanders.
There is no clear objective and no clear plan for victory. 

Lesson one learns at Sandia when one GETS THE RIGHT CLEARANCES is that
US government creates
its own business opportunities.

  Embassy Bombings 
 
                   Pakistan Gears to Midwife "Get Osama" Operation 
 
                                    Will the U.S. Bomb Afghanistan? 
 
      KARACHI: The arrest and the subsequent statement and evidence
provided by a Palestinian             arrested in Karachi, soon after
his arrival from Nairobi, has pushed US investigators close to      
declare the Afghanistan-based Saudi millionaire Osama Bin Laden as the
man behind the       devastating bombings that killed more than 250
people in and around US embassies in Kenya and       Tanzania on August
7, officials 
      disclosed here and in interviews from Islamabad.  ...

  The News International Pakistan, August 17, 1998 

was SIMPLY GREAT for Sandia Labs business interests as evidenced by
Robinson's August 19th view graphs.

 Osama Calls on Ummah to Continue Jehad 
 
    Denies Involvement in Embassy Bombings 
 
      PESHAWAR: Saudi dissident Osama Bin Laden for the first time
on       
      Thursday denied his involvement in the August 7 bombings at the
US      
      embassies in Kenya and Tanzania.
      The 42-year-old Bin Laden contacted this correspondent on         
      satellite phone at 9:00 pm on Thursday to convey his statement     
      through another Islamic leader Dr Ayman Al-Zawahiri, head
of         
      Egyptian Islamic Jehad organisation which was held responsible
for     
      the murder of Egypt's president Anwar Sadaat.  ...
    
    The News International Pakistan, August 21, 1998

Sandia supervisor James Gosler 

  When Payne balked, his supervisor said Payne "did not choose his
jobs.   
  Rather, Sandia assigns duties to" him. 

http://www.jya.com/whp1.htm

told us, 

  "There are some things the US government does that are SO SECRET they
  can't be CLASSIFIED."

Post away  ... and let's continue to hope for settlement of this
unfortunate matter.

http://www.aci.net/kalliste/speccoll.htm   
http://caq.com/cryptogate  
http://jya.com/whpfiles.htm  
http://www.qainfo.se/~lb/crypto_ag.htm

bill






