From: Stockpro@public.usa.com
Date: Fri, 11 Dec 1998 00:17:02 -0800 (PST)
Subject: Grand prize 10 day trip to HAWAII...Enter the drawing!!!!.
Message-ID: <690.100987.666524@user00923.mitc.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Hundreds of valuable prizes will be awarded to the winners of our exciting drawing.

And one lucky winner will receive a 10-day Hawaiian vacation for two!
It costs nothing to enter. 

To enter, simply become a preferred e-mail subscriber to our FREE  
financial information newsletter. A new winner will be selected everyday! 
There is absolutely no cost to you. 

Receive a FREE 12-month subscription to this informative financial 
information newsletter. You'll receive breaking news on all companies 
currently profiled as well as all future profiles as soon as they are released. 
The last company profiled was up 92% in one week! 

You must be at least 18 years old to enter.


Mako Capital (Mako) .74 trades on the OTC bulletin board. 
The stock is deeply discounted and on sale at current share prices. There
is reason to believe that the merger with sports group international
will be completed the week of December 7th. If this information is 
accurate, Mako stock could see significantly higher prices in the near
term. In addition, their are rumors that additional orders for their
Spalding Sports Drink should bring the total number of cases pre-sold
for 1999 up to approximately 2 million cases. That translates into 
approximately 25 million in revenue for 99. The stock could easily trade
back to 2.25 or higher based on that kind of revenue. 

To enter the drawing go to
http://www.eopop.com/dd/guest_book.htm


MAKO Capital (MAKO) .74 and traded on the OTC Bulletin Board.

The stock is deeply discounted and on-sale at current share prices.

We have reason to believe that the merger with Sports Group International
will be completed by the first week of December.  If that is true, we look
for significantly higher prices in the near term.  Also, we hear rumors of
additional orders for their Spalding Sports Drinks to bring them up to 2
million  pre-sold for '99.  That would be over $28 million dollars in
revenue.

We could easily see the stock trade back to 2.25.

Please fill out the form to receive a 12-month free subscription to
our financial information newsletter absolutely free.

Go to http://www.eopop.com/dd/guest_book.htm


Mako Capital has paid Freedom Rock Partners 150,000 shares of free trading
stock, and options to purchase 100,000 shares of Mako Capital at $1.00 as a
fee to prepare this report.

For more information, please read our disclaimer.
http://www.eopop.com/dd/disclaimer.htm 





NOTE: 
For those on the internet who do not want to recieve exciting messages 
such as this.....to be removed from our mailing list and our affilate lists 
goto:   edd@spdy.com and type remove.

*We strive to comply with all state and federal laws and to send ads only to interested parties.

*This ad is not intended for nor do we knowingly send to Washington State residents. 

* Responding to the "return address" will NOT have your name removed. 





