From: nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)
Date: Thu, 16 Apr 1998 16:36:30 -0700 (PDT)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: NoneRe: Gary Lee Burnore, Registered Sex Offender in Raleigh, NC
In-Reply-To: <gburnoreEr8085.po@netcom.com>
Message-ID: <199804162336.BAA25338@basement.replay.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Gary Lee Burnore <gburnore@databasix.com> wrote:

> In 11/96, I kissed a 17 year old girl.  I'm not going to provide you
> with a lot of detail because this isn't the place for it.  

If the girl's mother had heeded the earlier warning she received via e-mail
about your behavior several months earlier (the one you called "harassment"
at the time), this all could have been prevented.  You're lucky that the
11/96 "kiss" is all you were arrested for.  You were foolish to continue it
knowing that Nancy had already been tipped off.

In case you've forgotten, you whined:

-> So now the cowards in Ronald Francis's corner (I'm outright expecting the
-> culprit to be ronald francis himself) have taken to sending email to
-> those who have names listed on databasix's web page.  Sending comments to
-> a 17 year old that they're going to tell her mother that she's having an
-> affair with me.  Telling her mother that I'm molesting her daughter.
-> Having all sorts of fun.

And you threatened to report the anonymous whistleblower to the
authorities?  What chutzpah!  You're molesting a minor, someone tips off
her mother, and you threaten to report the person who tipped her off about
your behavior?

Your claim has now been proven to be a lie.  How would the mere fact that
the girl had a web page at databasix.com have alerted an outsider to the
fact that you were molesting her?  Presumably she didn't post her diary on
her web page, detailing your sexual activities towards her.  Where would
"Ronald Francis", or any other random "harasser" have obtained this
information?  You were too quick to dismiss the idea that all the alleged
"harassment" and spam baiting might have originated from a DataBasix
insider with detailed knowledge of your private life, as well as the
complete list of all DataBasix employees and customers that Belinda Bryan
claimed had been "spam baited".  Who else is getting ahold of all this
inside info, Gary?

> I pass no
> judgment on whether or not she instigated it.  I held myself
> responsible.  That's why I went to see a counselor and offered to pay
> for hers if she wanted to do the same.
>
> It was at the counselor's office that I learned what had happened was
> considered a crime under CA law.  I discussed this with the girl and
> her mother; neither wanted to get law enforcement involved.

But apparently it was serious enough that both your victim and her mother
thought you needed psychiatric help.  (Plenty of people on usenet could
have told you that.)

> To date, this ordeal has cost me nearly $30,000.00 in legal fees, lost
> wages, and other costs.   That however,  is nothing compared to the
> emotional stress of this.  

You spent $30K on what was supposedly a misdemeanor charge to which you
pled guilty?  Someone must have seen you "coming"?  Was it Nancy?

The maximum penalty for a misdemeanor is what?  6 months + $500?  You spent
$30K to get off with 3 years probation?  On a 6 month sentence, you'd
probably have been out in 3 months, and that's assuming you got the maximum
sentence.  Or was the $30K to get it plea bargained down from a more
serious charge?

> It goes on and on and on.

I thought the shrink was to ensure that if didn't.
   
> You know what's so damn frustrating about this?  I chose to talk to a
> councelor about this even though I knew it would bring charges.  I was
> doing the right thing.

What statute in California makes it a misdemeanor to kiss a 17 year old
girl?  (It must make senior proms a lot of fun there if such a law really
exists as you claim.)  Or does it depend on what part of her body you
"kissed" her?

It's also interesting that when it was revealed that you had also been
arrested in San Francisco for unlawful assembly in blocking traffic, you
minimized it and called it a mere "traffic ticket", concealing the fact
that you had already been convicted of something more serious.

Then when someone finally reveals a second criminal conviction on your
record, your sock puppets whine that it's a "half truth".  Well, gee, Gary,
you were content when the WHOLE truth was being concealed.  So much for you
"I have nothing to hide" boast!




