From: Linda Reed--PCC West Campus CSC <lreed@west.cscwc.pima.edu>
Date: Sun, 26 Jul 1998 11:43:08 -0700 (PDT)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: The Plot
Message-ID: <009C9C13.3FFFC220.15@west.cscwc.pima.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



The Plot of son of ?ThePlatypus
-------------------------------

Gathered information reveals:
1. US Presidents and important political figures count
  on the Secret Service for protection. Secret Service
  agents are in the employee of the MoneyMongers who
  rule the US Treasury Department.
   Thus, if the MoneyMongers don't approve of a powerful
  individual's political policy and actions...

2. Presidents and other political figures seem to die at
  particular junctures of time wherein they have already
  served their purpose to the Controllers. (Note: 'die'
  either physically or politically.
    i.e. - FDR croaking shortly after getting Truman
    elected as the hand-picked replacement of shadowy
    figures.

3. Ronald Reagan and FDR were both 'front men' for their
  wives, and/or those in their wives shadowy background.
    FDR, through the efforts of Elanor and her cohorts,
   was paid A QUARTER OF A MILLION DOLLARS in order to
   enter the New ork governor's race.

4. Accounts of the life and times of FDR inevitably contain
  a generous sprinkling of references to Luck!
    (e.g. - Fortuitous Circumstances as opposed to PART OF
     AN EVIL PLOT B THE SECRET CONTROLLERS WHO RULE THE
     WORLD FROM BEHIND THE SCENES!!!)

5. Hitler and his Evil Empire was no more a 'fluke of nature'
  than Lenin and his Evil Empire.
   The 'infiltration' of the American political scene by a
  wide variety of people with socialist or communist beliefs
  and agendas was not some mysterious, unplanned 'accident'.
   The rise of Eugenics, with the resulting implications of
  a Master Race embodied in genetic control, was a worldwide
  phenomena promoted by intellectuals and leaders in all
  nations, not just in the nation which gave Eugenics a
  'bad name' by instituting the end result of a Planned
  Society a little too fast to prevent disturbing the
  average persons natural pace of increasing moral compromise.

6. Neither Oswald nor Hitler 'acted alone.'
   Try starting a World War without the backing and support
of the MoneyMongers and the PowerBrokers. Lots of luck...

7. After Pavlov discovered biological mechanisms for the
  control of when dogs drool, his research did not come
  to a halt.
   Political and Military Czars who had a hand in developing
  and researching brainwashing techniques epitomized by 'The
  Manchurian Candidate' did *not* decide it would be wrong
  to use the techniques, just to increase their money and
  power.
    oung boys in the throes of publerty do *not* refrain
  from imagining what their large-breasted teacher would
  look like, naked, after reading 'The Invisible Man'.

8. Viewing the life and times of FDR (and probably any other
  political/religious leader) is *scary* if one lets their
  mind contemplate the 'possibility' of deep, dark conspiracy
  theories being True!!
    Why? Because one can construct a Dark Theory that makes
  as much (if not *more*) sense than the Standard Authorized
  View Of History And Reality promoted in educational
  materials, government pamphlets and corporate advertising.
  (i.e. - The Allies burned a few Jews, but they didn't
   inhale...)

9. Nobody acts alone...Anonymous acts secretly.




