From: "Vladimir Z. Nuri" <vznuri@netcom.com>
Date: Wed, 18 Nov 1998 14:34:03 -0800 (PST)
To: John Young <jya@pipeline.com>
Subject: Re: CJ Update
In-Reply-To: <199811181521.KAA16375@smtp2.atl.mindspring.net>
Message-ID: <199811182233.OAA08408@netcom13.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


the CJ update is sad/interesting.

the story about the psychologist asking him about his tax
resistance or failure to file a return is a big red flag.
that's jim bell's problem. so it looks like a lot of this
is about trying to scare the bejeezus out of people who think
that paying taxes is bogus. notice how the psychologist implied
that not filing taxes or being a tax protester is a sign of
insanity.. well hell I'm sure that's what the english royalty
felt about the colonies at the time!! we have met the enemy,
and the enemy is us!!

CJ complains that letters are not getting to him, or that
his mail is being read. I propose CJ try to set up a secure
conversation with someone and establish a code with the
outside world. being a cpunk with a lot of intelligence
he will understand this  very well.   also you could even
set up codes in which you are not using actual words. but
transmitting something else that the authorities will not
interfere with, but which contains info. for example chess-by-mail
moves could conceal codes. (I heard one rumor they were censored
during WWII)

also ingenious schemes could be used to determine if you are
missing mail. CJ numbers all his letters to the outside world
and uses a single point of contact to send mail to. that person
also numbers all mail sent to CJ. CJ then knows what is not
received. both sides should catalog/inventory what they are sending/receiving.

if CJ is fighting the truth, I don't think he is wise. did he
really plant a bomb?? if so, I think it would be wise to plea
bargain on that one. CJ doesn't realize that they may have far more
knowledge about what they can get him for than he does, and he may
regret not taking a plea bargain down the road. CJ, don't try to 
be a joan-of-arc, or you might get burned at the stake.

sounds like what would be very valuable to CJ right now is a little
law books on the charge relevant to him, and maybe a book like
"defending yourself in court for dummies"
<g>

good luck CJ-- I think you will get out of the hole onto a strict
probation, like Bell..






