From: nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)
Date: Mon, 20 Apr 1998 16:01:22 -0700 (PDT)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Gary Lee Burnore and His Anti-Privacy Zealots are on the Warpath!
In-Reply-To: <6gobin$ctl$1@camel20.mindspring.com>
Message-ID: <199804202301.BAA22881@basement.replay.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Belinda Bryan <eridani@databasix.com> wrote:

> The bottom line is that you'd better get down on your knees every night
> and pray to whatever you hold sacred that I don't find out who you are
> because if I do, I will make every minute of the rest of your miserable
> life an absolute hell.  And I won't break any laws to do it, nor will I
> hide behind a veil of anonymity.  This is no threat, it's a *promise*.

Why don't you just tell you child-molesting friend Gary Lee Burnore that if
he would keep his pants zipped up around the children, he wouldn't need to
hire you to fight his battles.  If he didn't molest a child in Santa Clara,
CA and then move to NC and register as a sex offender, the fact of his
conviction for that crime wouldn't have been published for all to see on
Nort Carolina's public registered sex offender's website, would it?  Just
because you don't like the message, don't shoot the messenger.  This was
the same loud-mouthed Burnore that previously said that republishing
publicly available data to Usenet was acceptable, and that he had nothing
to hide.  Now he's pissed that someone else is following his own example.

Anti-privacy kooks like you and DataBasix CEO Gary Lee Burnore are one of
the best arguments for the existence of anonymous remailers.  You and your
friends at DataBasix have a hard time bullying and harassing people into
silence that you can't identify, don't you?

Lest anyone forget, Gary launched his first tirade against anonymity when
someone tipped off his molestation victim's mother and school officials
anonymously.  Whistleblowing has always been one of the important functions
of anonymous remailers.  Of course, Gary denied the charges and accused the
victim's anonymous benefactor of "harassment" and "libel".  Now the public
record shows that Gary was guilty after all, by his own admission and
guilty plea.

Belinda, if you want to make Gary's "miserable life an absolute hell", why
don't you just marry him?

Now if I really wanted to start a vicious rumor, I'd wonder aloud whether
Raleigh, NC's two most famous resident kooks, Gary Burnore and the Rev.
Steve Winter are really one and the same person!




