From: Leif Ericksen <phantom@wwa.com>
Date: Fri, 18 Sep 1998 08:20:45 +0800
To: cypherpunks <cypherpunks@toad.com>
Subject: Re: Encryption and Terrorists
In-Reply-To: <7874ed1d5f47be94688551065bac8ea5@anonymous>
Message-ID: <36025B1F.BAF0F59@wwa.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Anonymous wrote:
> 
> Wake up America! Encryption doesn't kill people!  Terrorists do.
> Would you give the keys to your house to the government? Just in
> case they have to break in? NO!  How about your ATM PIN #, just in case
> you don't pay your taxes? NO! So don't give out your keys that you use
> for
> encrpytion and don't let the government have a way to get them either!
> 
> Just say NO to the UNCONSTITUTIONAL idea of Limited Privacy! After all,
> we are not COMMUNISTS.

You make some interesting comments, but here is a few issues to
consider.  Yes, in AmeriKa we are free or are we?

In America the government already has our keys to our house. *IF* they
suspect us of something YES we are free to say *NO* you may not enter my
house.  However, if they come with a search warrant you had better let
them in or they will break down your door, you had better help them find
what they want or they will tear apart your house looking for said items
stated in the search warrant.  *IF* they do not find it, it is the
responsibility of the searching organization to have repairs done for
the damage. (So I have been told by a friend whose brother is a cop.)

You talk about an ATM PIN number, well here is the bigger problem, we
have a Social (Insecurity) Number.  Once you take it and use it you have
stated YES, I will pay my taxes, you pay once you pay for life. (Taxes
were originally voluntary when the program started.  Now it is forced. 
At least that is what I have heard, I have not researched it yet.  NOTE:
to any IRS agents, I Do and will continue to pay my taxes.  I do not
like it but I rather pay then have you come in and take everything)

Back to the point with the SSN the IRS can freeze ALL your Assets and
lock up your bank accounts and say this money is OURS, they can also
come in and kick you out of your house. (My father had some co-workers
that owed some money to the government, and made the mistake of saying
they could not pay and that they should just take his house.  Guess what
the IRS said MOVE OUT it is OURS!  He should have asked for a payment
plan, he would have been better off.)

No we are not communists, however our country is NO LONGER a REAL
Democracy, it is more of a dictatorship. The government for the people
BY THE PEOPLE is no longer.  IT is a GOVERNMENT FOR THE GOVERNMENT  BY
THE GOVERNMENT.

Think of it we vote for who we want, but do we really get what we want?
Think of it Congress wants a raise they make a motion and vote on it.
DO they let the public vote on it? NO.
Think of it we pay taxes and boy do we pay taxes depending on what state
you live in we have such as the following.
	1) Sales
	2) Property
	3) Income 
 	    - Federal	
	    - State
                 The following are some that some areas are trying to 
                 get in place.
	    - local (township/county)
	    - city
	4) Phone taxes
            - Federal
	    - State
            - City
            - (local and state additional charges?) TAX upon TAX.
	    - Federal PIC Charge. TAX UPON TAX UPON TAX.
	5) Death.
	6) Inheritance.

I know I missed a few here, and I am sure there are some anti tax folks
out here that could list every single one.  Just think of it though,
when you add all the little taxes up we probably are paying close to 50
- 60% tax rates.  Think of it, the internet is partially funded by our
INCOME tax, and they add an extra tax to it on our phone bill and call
it as such.  Think of it MOST OF THE MAJOR carriers in the US
MCI, SPRINT, AT&T are the PROVIDERS of internet connectivity and we pay
taxes to them already?  Is that about triple or four times taxed there?

I just hope that we do not have a major revolt, against the taxes and
the government.  *IF* we do I am willing to BET if it is really bad like
the revolts WAY back to the time of the Boston Tea Party the UN will
step in and send the MIlitary (US) and say control those folks.  I hope
I do not live to see that.

I will Continue to pay my taxes, and I will continue to vote for who I
think can do the job.  I will start working on getting a business
running so that I can take advantage of all the tax breaks of running a
business.  BUT I will keep it all legal.  That is the only way to get
things going better for yourself is to own your own business, and make
it small enough that it can be just you and your family.


					- lhe




