From: John Young <jya@pipeline.com>
Date: Thu, 17 Sep 1998 17:55:10 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Jim Bell and CJ Upbeat
Message-ID: <199809172250.SAA24991@camel7.mindspring.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Forwarded message:

Subject: Update on Jim
Date: Thu, 17 Sep 1998

I spoke with Jim last night. He had been "in the hole", 
as he calls it, for almost 7 days. This is when he is 
placed in a cell by himself on a different floor and is not
allowed out of it (they bring his food to him, instead of 
his going to the cafeteria, and can't go out to the social 
area - to play pool, for instance). He said it was because 
he had remarked to a warden that she had the ugliest voice 
in the whole world, after she repeatedly told the inmates 
to clean up their rooms even though they had complied
repeatedly to her demands. (I asked him if he had spent 
the time reading Atlas Shrugged, and he said he'd done that 
a bit. I don't think he's much interested in railroads, 
taking quite some time to get through it, although he told 
me he's a fast reader).

Anyway last night his things had been packed and he expected 
to be shipped to Oklahoma City this morning.  He will be 
there anywhere from half a day to two days and then be sent
on to Springfield, MO for the mental eval. Perhaps he will 
meet up with Toto there.

[End forward]

JYA:

If it's not been mentioned here CJ was in transit to 
Springfield over the weekend, being held for unknown
reasons in OKC from where he called a fan who passed
on the news. He's in good spirits.

And Jim is reported to be in good spirits. So it's all
worked out, their notoriety a tonic for tired blood, try
it, depressives.

Both are sassing the jailers, getting railroaded to 
OKC and Springfield for a bit of mind-bending and 
-straightening. Are they fit to stand trial, oh yeah, 
do it, the snakes of Medusa.

No one knows what the OKC stopover for Jim or CJ is about,
maybe to introduce them to each other (Jim claims to not 
know CJ -- smart), maybe to kick dirt on the homeplate of
Murrah Memorial, get image-counseled by Anita Hill.

Jim and CJ in Springfield at the same time, getting heavy
mentaled, wordsmith assassination duelers. Now that's a 
Teen Spirit I'd like to smell.

Remember, Music Capital Branson is just down the road from 
Springfield if cpunks want to gather to banjo code duel.






