From: dina_102@hotmail.com
Date: Wed, 11 Mar 1998 15:38:04 -0800 (PST)
To: dina_102@hotmail.com
Subject: Subliminal Sex
Message-ID: <0000000000.AAA000@hotmail.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain




Do you want to succeed at dating, or you just need a little spark to your
relationship or marriage?

Well here is the Answer for you!

Sensations(r), the new Compact Disc that  uses proven subliminal techniques to
increase your chances of SEXUAL success with the opposite sex.. Simply play it
and watch it work!!!!


What is Subliminal messaging? - "Subliminal perception is the registration of sensory input without
the conscious mind's awareness." 

*Proven Examples* - In 1957, a cinema executive named James Vicary reported to the press that he managed to
increase the sale of popcorn at a theatre by 58% by using subliminal messages embedded in a
film. 
The advertising industry claimed it had developed a whole new methodology which could
influence buying behavior in a predictable and controlled fashion. 

Our Titles - 
The original that started it all! Sensations(r) on CD is a collection of eight songs (45 min.) that sound
"new age." The tempo of each track is upbeat, sexy, romantic, and pleasing. Yet, each song has a
subliminal message built-in, masked by the sound of music. So, the conscious mind has nothing to
analyze or criticize.  CD only $29.95 

Do you want to be a winner?
If YES then call toll free 1-800-409-8302 ext. 1256

*TESTIMONIALS* -

Dear Sensations(r), 

At first, I didn't think subliminal messaging could change my love life. Hell, I didn't think anything could
help me. I tried dating services, blind dates--you name it--to no avail. 

I bought Sensations(r) on CD and played it all day on the stereo in my office cubicle. Valerie, an
executive assistant that I was interested in, started to hang-out by my desk. When I asked her to
lunch, she even said "yes." 

Well, Valerie and I have been dating for over a month, and when I played Sensations(r) during our first
"romantic" evening at my place, I swore I'd never forget what that CD did for me. Thank you very
much! 
                                                                                     Jim Rushak.
                                                                                       Detroit, MI

Dear Sensations(r), 

I'd been seeing this lady for over three weeks and we never got beyond "third base."She had just
come from a relationship and she said she was nervous about sleeping with another man. 

I was patient long enough and really wanted to push things to the "next level." That's when I ordered
Sensations(r).She visited my apartment, and I had it playing on my C.D. player. 

Instead of me making the first move, she was all over me. Needless to say, I think Sensations(r) is a
"home run!" 
                                                                                      Scott Helm.
                                                                                         Lodi, NJ



Dear Sensations(r), 

After spending thousands on new clothes and hundreds on colognes, I finally took the plunge and
bought your CD. It was the best $29.95 I ever spent! 
I was "lucky"with three girls already, after playing Sensations(r) for each of them on dates. Were they
turned-on by my clothes or how I smelled? I'm not kidding myself--it was Sensations that changed my
luck. Please let me know when the next volume of your CD comes out. I want it. 
                                                                                      Bob Theut.
                                                                                     Dayton, OH

If you have any questions or will like to order Sensations please call 1-800-409-8302 ext.1256
  








