From: "info" <info@aggressor.net>
Date: Mon, 28 Dec 1998 18:04:23 -0800 (PST)
To: <info@aggressor.net>
Subject: Release Information
Message-ID: <001101be32de$208c0b90$3c59aec3@aggressor.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain
Content-Length: 2678
Lines: 86


 Dear subscriber,

  We are glad to inform you that "The Aggressor PRO V1.0" and "The Aggressor
NTT v1.0" is now released.
  You may download Trial version of The Aggressor PRO from
http://www.aggressor.net.


  * Brief list of features :

  - Advanced Network Sniffing Module

    The Aggressor PRO entitles you to monitor the network traffic on your
local network.
    This feature enables you to read every incoming and outgoing email,
monitor web access of
    employees or monitor irc or icq messages, it has filtering mechanism to
ease viewing connections and
    connection logging feature for autosaving the connections and view them
later.

  - Intrusion Detection

    The Aggressor's beholder module controls all connections/packets between
your local network and internet,
    analyses incoming and outgoing packets, detects and logs hostile actions
like portscanning, denial of service
    attacks or exploit attacks, logs them and alerts the administrator when
such an attempt occurs.

  - Blocking

    With The Aggressor, you can block service usage and server access by
making rulesets.
    Network monitoring options allow the system administrator to ban sites,
services, block connections,
    ban keywords and more.

  - Network Vulnerability Scanner / Informator

    This module enables you to test your network against hacker attacks.
With its live plugin support, you will
    be able to test your network against latest security vulnerabilities by
downloading related plugin file from
    our website. We also have Plugin SDK (for Delphi and Visual C) for you
to develop your own plugin files for
    The Aggressor.

  - Network Administration Tools.

    The Aggressor has most important internet tools which are useful for
network administration such as DNS Scanner,
    Portscanner, Finger, Ident, Whois, Ping, Traceroute. With The Aggressor,
you will not need use any internetworking
    tools from any other sources.

    Requirements :

    Windows NT 4.0 ( Installed Internet Explorer 4 for HTML Filter )
    Ethernet Connection (or another 802.3 frame compatible device)

    Pentium 200 MMX (Pentium II 266 Recommended)
    32 Mb Ram (Additional ram for high network traffic (64+) )
    10 Mb Disk space  (Additional disk space for connection / observer
logging)

    You can obtain detailed information about our product from
http://www.aggressor.net

    Please note that this is a release notification email you can send email
to list-request@aggressor.net with
    subject "UNSUBSCRIBE" to remove yourself from our notify list .


    Regards
    Korhan KAYA

    AGIS Corporation
    http://www.aggressor.net
    (+90)(212) 212-3427






