From: Linda Reed--PCC West Campus CSC <lreed@west.cscwc.pima.edu>
Date: Sat, 28 Feb 1998 14:12:10 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: SAHMD 5/0
Message-ID: <009C27DF.62CAA3E0.49@west.cscwc.pima.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Prologue 5/0
-------------

The Story Thus Far:
  (Or so we would have you believe...)


It is now commonly known that:
  American overt and covert spook agencies of one sort or 
another monitor--legally and illegally--almost all of
the electronic communications in the world.
  American overt and covert spook agencies, legally and
illegally make and break the finances of nations and
corporations around the world.
  Overt and covert spook agencies of other nations do
exactly the same thing, on differing scales.

  Internationally powerful financial agencies, groups
and individuals make daily decisions affecting the lives
of individuals, societies and nations, based on the
desires and goals of individuals who are above and beyond
the control of any nation or group of nations.
  Joe and Jane Sheeple are not privy to information as
to who, exactly, these people are, or what their ultimate
designs are for our future.

  Human rights and freedoms, throughout the world, are
contingent upon heavily armed governments allowing us
those rights and freedoms which they perceive to be
in our best overall interest.
  Those heavily armed governments are increasingly 
acting in concert with one another, dividing up our
finances, property and our human rights among themselves
at the slightest whim.


If It Prevents Just A Single Starving Biafran Child
>From Exposure To A Picture Of A Naked Breast...:
  This is why 'Higher Authority' (government, business,
a person with a large wallet or a large gun) feels compelled
to 'serve and protect' the Sheeple.
  Of course, this all comes at a cost...

  Own your own home? Bullshit!
  I don't care if you paid cash and have clear title--if you
fail to pay property taxes to men with guns who say that you
*have* to, then you are out on the street, tomorrow.

  Growing organic vegetables? Bullshit!
  Unless you have proper state certification, after having
filled in the mountains of documentation and paid numerous
filing fees, registration fees, incremental fees and 
excremental fees, as well as having paid for a mountain
of testing by an independent (government approved) laboratory, thenyour sorry ass is going to jail if you whisper the word 
"organic" in your sleep.

  Do you have a name? Bullshit!
  I don't care what you call yourself, what your momma calls
you, or what name is on your birth certificate, you are a 
number, and you goddamn well better *have* that fucking
number ready if you want to drive a car, cross the street,
make a purchase, sell something, stand in line to get a
number, or breathe.

NEWS FLASH!!!
[Author's Note: You may want to skip the next paragraph,
 if you have a weak heart, or have suicidal tendencies,
 because it speaks a truth that is too ugly for most of
 us to face, even in the best of times.]
  The ONLY time that the powers-that-be recognize you as
a unique individual with a personality, character and a
history, is when they want to USE you, or FUCK you.

  Trust me, you don't really want to think about this
too much, unless you are prepared to face the truth,
because the more you think about it, the more obviously
true it becomes.
  
  The information you are required to provide in applying
for a driver's license--picture, height, weight, race,
hair and eye color--is for the purpose of connecting you,
and only you, to the number on the license.

  Contributed to Social Security all of your life, and now
you are entitled to collect?
  If you have the wrong numnber, Fuck You! If the government
has misplaced your number, Fuck You! If the government is
using a new numbering system, Fuck You!
  Your name is Joe Sheeple, and you worked at the same job
all of your life, and your employer, your family and your
CongressPerson can all attest to the fact that you paid
your share of SS each and every week, and you are now
old enough to retire? Fuck you! Got a number?

  You are a number. Your number is used to categorize
your position and status in life for use by the government
and business during your journey from the cradle to the
grave.

  Fought for your country in the Gulf War? Picked up some
sort of exotic disease or disability?
  Spare me the detail, pal. It doesn't matter how hard you
fought, how valiantly you risked your life, how many kids
you have to feed, what sort of medical history you can
provide about yourself before, during and after the event.
  Your number gets lumped in with the other numbers who
got sick or disabled, and then the number-crunchers decide
if the country you defended can afford for you all to
be sick and disabled.
  Sorry, pal, but the figures are too high. So you
and all of the other numbers get a big, group,
Fuck You!

  You are a number.
  Trust me on this. If you can't trust 608-335-345, then
who *can* you trust?




