From: stock-pick@stock-pick.net
Date: Sat, 10 Oct 1998 15:01:26 -0700 (PDT)
To: user@the.internet
Subject: AD: Stock-Pick Discovers Media Goldmine!!
Message-ID: <199810110145.VAA11990@mars.your-mail.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


This message is sent in compliance of the new e-mail bill: SECTION 301, 
Paragraph (a)(2)(C) of s. 1618

Sender : Stock-Pick, P.O. Box 130544, St Paul, MN  55113
Phone  : 1-612-646-8174
E-mail : stock-pick@stock-pick.net

To be removed from our mailing list, simply reply with "REMOVE" in the 
subject.

Visit http://www.stock-pick.net for full details.

Financial Highlights: Triangle Broadcasting, Inc. (OTC BB : GAAY)

Shares Outstanding (Aug 31, 1998) : 19.4 Million Shares
Current Market Capitalization (Current Stock Price of $0.05) - $970,000
Stockholders' Equity (June 30, 1998) - $2,233,470 - Equity per Share : $0.115

At current stock price of $0.05 we feel this stock to be tremendous BUY 
at these levels.  Currently there are 19.4 million shares outstanding, 
this gives a market capitalization of only $970,000 - a modest 
investment could yield enormous rewards for the investors who entered on 
the ground floor.  At current price levels $1000 would purchase 20,000
shares.

"Mark Twain said: "The secret to success is - find out where the people 
are going and get there first".  We feel that Triangle Broadcasting, Inc. 
(OTC BB : GAAY) has followed that adage to a T.	 

Triangle Broadcasting Company, Inc. (OTC BB : GAAY) is launching itself 
to a right future.  They are the first mass media company  to target gays 
and lesbians on a national level.   Successful companies always take one 
step at a time so that they never skip over something important that will 
haunt them in the future.  First, Triangle Broadcasting Company, Inc. did 
extensive surveys.  They found out what were the people's preferences.  
They also figured out what would be the most strategic way to market their 
product and what programs would be received well by both the gay and 
lesbian communities and the mass market.  They set up their programming 
and found what cities they should target first.  Triangle Broadcasting 
Company, Inc. is going to start in 15 cities.  They have chosen 15 cities 
with large gay and lesbian populations.  After they have gained acceptance 
in these markets, they will expand to a national level.  They can already 
be received by over 10,000 stations in the United States and Canada.  
Triangle Broadcasting Company, Inc. will not expand until they have made 
a presence in the markets that they are focusing on. 

Triangle Broadcast Company, Inc. hand-picked it's management 
infrastructure.  They took broadcast executives who had extensive 
knowledge about the industry.  Gay and lesbian nightclub owners were 
brought in to help formulate the programming.  Business advisors help 
with the complexities of running a business.  And last but not least real 
estate people help with the planning of which communities would be their 
first targets.

After all this was set up they contacted advertising executives of major 
companies throughout the United States and Canada.   The response was 
overwhelming.  With all the above factors, and the fact that advertisers 
are already lining up, success is almost inevitable.  This is truly an 
amazing company with nothing but positive opportunities in front of it.

Once again visit http://www.stock-pick.net for full details.

****** DISCLAIMER ******

This material is being provided by Stock-Pick, a paid public relations 
company, and is for informational purposes only and is not to be 
construed as an offer or solicitation of an offer to sell or buy any 
security. Stock-Pick is an independent electronic publication providing 
both information and factual analysis on selected companies that in the 
opinion of Stock-Pick have investment potential. Companies featured by 
Stock-Pick or company affiliates pay consideration to Stock-Pick for the 
electronic dissemination of company information. Triangle Broadcasting 
Company, Inc. has paid a consideration of 100,000 common shares of 
Triangle Broadcasting Company, Inc. stock to Stock-Pick in conjunction 
with this company profile. All statements and expressions are the opinion 
of Stock-Pick. Stock-Pick is not a registered investment advisor or a 
broker dealer. While it is our goal to locate and research equity 
investments in micro or small capitalization companies that have the 
potential for long-term appreciation, investment in the companies reviewed
are considered to be high risk and may result in loss of some or all of 
the investment. The information that Stock-Pick relies on is generally 
provided by the featured companies and also may include information from 
outside sources and interviews conducted by Stock-Pick. While Stock-Pick 
believes all sources of the information to be reliable, Stock-Pick makes 
no representation or warranty as to the accuracy of the information 
provided.  Investors should not rely solely on the information contained 
in this publication. Rather, investors should use the information 
contained in this publication as a starting point for doing additional 
independent research on the featured companies in order to allow the 
investor to form his or her own opinion regarding investing in featured 
companies. This publication contains forward looking statements that are 
subject to risk and uncertainties that could cause results to differ 
materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. These 
forward-looking statements represent Triangle Broadcasting Inc., judgement 
as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any intent or 
obligation to update these forward-looking statements. Factual statements 
in this publication are made as of the date stated and are subject to 
change without notice. 




