From: bill payne <billp@nmol.com>
Date: Tue, 5 May 1998 07:12:55 -0700 (PDT)
To: william lewis <" Bill.Lewis"@hq.doe.gov>,       tyler przybylek <tomcgap@halcyon.com>
Subject: Payne-Morales vs. NSA: Memorandum Opinion and Order
Message-ID: <354F1D2B.375A@nmol.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Tuesday 5/5/98 7:17 AM

Lawyers and MCs

Morales and I met on Monday to discuss strategy for response to

Payne-Morales vs. NSA: Memorandum Opinion and Order

which is cross-linked at http://www.aci.net/kalliste/ from
http://www.jya.com/whp043098.htm

We will, of course, file 

Rule 52. Findings by the Court; Judgment on Partial Findings

    (a) Effect. In all actions tried upon the facts without a jury or 
with an advisory jury, the court shall find the facts specially and 
state separately its conclusions of law thereon, and judgment shall be 
entered pursuant to Rule 58; and in granting or refusing interlocutory 
injunctions the court shall similarly set forth the findings of fact and 
conclusions of law which constitute the grounds of its action. Requests 
for findings are not necessary for purposes of review. Findings of fact, 
whether based on oral or documentary evidence, shall not be set aside 
unless clearly erroneous, and due regard shall be given to the 
opportunity of the trial court to judge of the credibility of the 
witnesses. The findings of a master, to the extent that the court adopts 
them, shall be considered as the findings of the court. It will be 
sufficient if the findings of fact and conclusions of law are stated 
orally and recorded in open court following the close of the evidence or 
appear in an opinion or memorandum of decision filed by the court. 
Findings of fact and conclusions of law are unnecessary on decisions of 
motions under Rules 12 or 56 or any other motion except as provided in 
subdivision (c) of this rule.
    (b) Amendment. On a party's motion filed no later than 10 days after 
entry of judgment, the court may amend its findings--or make additional 
findings--and may amend the judgment accordingly. The motion may 
accompany a motion for a new trial under Rule 59. When findings of fact 
are made in actions tried without a jury, the sufficiency of the 
evidence supporting the findings may be later questioned whether or not 
in the district court the party raising the question objected to the 
findings, moved to amend them, or moved for partial findings.

motion.

Lawyers, we suspect that the possibility that Campos wrote the 56 page
document is remote.

Reason is that informants within the federal court system have told us
that
the government lawyers write the opinion and order, then gives them to
the 
judge to sign.

Morales and noticed in previous cases that material not presented to
judges were appearing in the judges' documents.

So when we study the document we will be looking for 

	1 material cited by Campos which Campos did not or should not
	have in his possession

	2  introduction of legal citations not presented to the court by either
	plaintiffs or defendant.

A judge is supposed to judge, not help either side.

	3 felony violations of the False Statement Act.

We learned from an Hispanic lawyer that government lawyers give false
citations
of case law to a judge to have the judge agree and dismiss the
plaintiff's case.
 
Morales and I still have been unable to obtain docket sheets from the
Tenth circuit for 
cases No. 94-2205, Payne v Sandia and 95-2204, Morales v Sandia.

We both won but crooked federal judges gave the win to Sandia.

Morales and my main purpose in filing the NSA genocide and deficient
crypto
algorithm lawsuit was to expose corruption in the US federal court
system.

A side purpose an international public service to expose technical
details of NSA's
bungled spy stingS so that congress can take some action to remedy
damage done
by US 'intelligence' agencies.

Albuquerque Journal 4/21/98 page A6 reports what happened.

  U.S. Aided Communist Foe Pol Pot
  Richard Reeves

  LOS ANGELES - ...

  Even after he fell from national power, we helped supply and protect
  Pol Pot because the Khmer Rouge was tying down large number of
occupying
  North Vietnamese troops.
    These are some of the names of the evil who were or still are paid
friends:
  o  Saddam Hussein, paid for making war on Iran.
  o  Gulbuddin Hekmatry, who made his name throwing acid in the faces of
female
     students in Kabul who dared to wear western dress, paid for making
was against
     communists in Afghanistan.
  o  The Taliban, the religious warriors we helped train to fight
communists who are 
     beating or killing those same women right now in Afghanistan.
  o  Manuel Noriega, the soldier-thug we encouraged to overthrow
elections in Panama
     because we did not like the results.
  o  Mobuto Sese Seko, one Joseph Mobutu, our man in Zaire.
  o  Jonas Savimbi, in constant war in Angola
  The list goes on.  It has for a long time and will, even if communism
is dead as a
  national security threat of the United States.  In may of these cases
our interest 
  involved resources - oil, usually, ...

Settlement should be made QUICKLY Before something possibly VERY
UNFORTUNATE happens.

Also, I needed legal delivery practice prior to filing a Privacy Act and
defamation
lawsuit.

Let's all hope for settlement.

Later
bill






