From: "Vladimir Z. Nuri" <vznuri@netcom.com>
Date: Thu, 24 Sep 1998 02:29:34 +0800
To: cypherpunks@cyberpass.net
Subject: IP: Fwd: SHOWDOWN AT THE FCC (Microbroadcasting)
Message-ID: <199809240731.AAA25707@netcom13.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain




From: Bridget973@aol.com
Subject: IP: Fwd: SHOWDOWN AT THE FCC (Microbroadcasting)
Date: Wed, 23 Sep 1998 21:50:00 EDT
To: ignition-point@majordomo.pobox.com

Date:         Tue, 22 Sep 1998 23:42:07 -0400 (EDT)
From:        Sara Zia-Ebrahimi <sazF95@hamp.hampshire.edu>
To:            chatski@gl.umbc.edu

please forward to anyone you know who would be interested

UPDATE!!!!

SHOWDOWN AT THE FCC!!!

FREE RADIO ACTIVISTS MARCH ON WASHINGTON TO CONFRONT THE GLOBAL MEDIA
MONOPOLY AND THEIR MARIONNETTES IN GOVERNMENT!

Sunday October 4th and Monday October 5th

Calling all media activists, radio pirates, people for a democratic media
and people just fed up with crappy corporate radio:

Come to DC for the first national mobilization for free radio.
Microbroadcasters from around the country will gather for two days to
share radio skills, organize alliances, speak out to the media and protest
at the FCC and NAB buildings, culminating in a live broadcast straight
into the offices of the people working so hard to shut us down. Free Radio
Berkeley, Radio Mutiny, Steal This Radio and other microstations have all
broadcasted live in public and challenged the FCC to shut them down in the
light of day, in front of the press and the Feds have never dared to show
their face- this time, we're going to take it right to their doorstep and
tell them that if they're so sure that their dumb law is worth enforcing,
then the Chairman should come down from the 8th floor and put the cuffs on
us himself. There will also be workshops to help new folks start stations,
appointments will be made to lobby congress people, and press events will
be held to show the true, diverse face of the microbroadcasting movement.



Schedule

Sunday, 
Latin American Youth Center: @1419 Columbia Rd. NW DC
10am-12pm:
*Everything you need to start a community station besides a transmitter:
facilitated     by Joan and Eli of Free Radio Memphis 
*The FCC petitions: What's in it for us?: facilitated by Benn Kobb, Stuart
Poritzky and    Bill Spry  
*The current legal situation: facilitated by Alan Korn of the Committee
for Democratic  Communications, Scott Bullock from the Institute for
Justice
12-1 lunch
1-3pm:
*Transmitters 101: facilitated by Bill Gorz
*Starting a legal application to position for another First Amendment 
                 case: facilitated by Pete triDish and Alan Korn
*The threat of media concentration to democracy: facilitated by Greg
Ruggiero from Steal this Radio
3-5 pm:
*Transmitters 202: facilitated by 
*Commercial vs. non-commercial micro-stations: facilitated by Alan Korn
*Publicity: Tips on talking to the press and lobbying for support:  Jesse
Walker of the Competitive Enterprise Institute and Diane Imelda Fleming  

5-6:30 dinner  @La Casa 3166 Mt. Pleasant St. NW DC
7pm party/puppet making for demonstration @La Casa

Monday 
9 am Panel and Debate at the Freedom Forum: an event which will probably
be broadcast on NPR featuring micro-broadcasters, lawyers and FCC offcials
head-to-head




