From: TruthMonger <tm@dev.null>
Date: Thu, 9 Apr 1998 20:03:02 -0700 (PDT)
To: fygrave@freenet.bishkek.su
Subject: Please let Dudley sleep under your roof for a while...
Message-ID: <352D8C1D.5141@dev.null>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


                               The Official

                       Royal Canadian Mounted Police

                                 HATE Page

Kudos of the week go to Constable Dave Voller, who legally murdered a
gun-toting Wagon-Burner and the nine year old future glue-sniffer clinging
to her skirt.

Congrats, Dave. A hundred points for the woman, and five hundred for the
kid...

This is a good time to remind RCMP Officers across Canada that, despite our
long history of exercising a strong hand (and an even stronger nightstick
;?) in keeping the Wagon-Burners from storming the gates of white society,
current social and legal trends make it necessary for us to take every step
necessary to cover our ass when we take those measures needed to keep them
in their proper physical place (the reservation) and to keep them in their
proper attitudinal place even when they remain in their proper physical
place.

Remember that the procedures that we have put in place are for your
protection, and that if you stay within our guidelines, you can pretty much
waste as many Wagon-Burners as you wish, without suffering legal
consequences.

Constable Voller followed proper procedure in charging right into a
volatile situation with no backup, so that there would be no possibility of
conflicting stories from other officers invited to participate in the
adrenaline high involved.
He also had the foresight to waste the bitch with a shotgun, so that a wide
enough target area would be covered to take care of any potential witnesses
whose stories would not be subject to government pressure as to their
content.

Rest assured that if you murder a Wagon-Burner according to proper
procedure, that the members we claim not to be able to spare to supervise a
potentially deadly encounter with Wagon-Burners will suddenly become
available to pore over the murder site and absolve you of any wrongdoing.
A host of spin-doctors will also suddenly appear to remind the head
Wagon-Burners that 'good relations' with the Federal Government are
conditional on 'going along to get along.'

The RCMP Officers of the Wild, Wild West continue to lead the way in
keeping the Wagon-Burners constantly on the run, no matter how far they run
to try to escape.

The Estevan Detachment of the RCMP is living up to their long tradition of
effectively using other arms of law enforcement to effectively harass
Wagon-Burners while using a minimum of Federal resources.

You undoubtedly remember last year's article about the member of the City
of Estevan Police Department who was successful in getting the courts to
uphold his own brand of Frontier Justice for decades, until he made the
mistake of using a 'real' informant, thus making his cases vulnerable to
conflicting testimony as to his questionable activities.
As we reported, the prosecutor was able to railroad a couple of kids who
were represented by incompetent legal aide lawyers, by having the arresting
officer help to mentally muscle them outside the presence of legal counsel,
but the #1 Wagon-Burner on the local yokel's list was not able to be
railroaded at that time.

We reported with pride on the Estevan Detachment of the RCMP helping that
same local officer to once again set up the Wagon-Burner by helping in the
operation while staying out of the main action, so that the Wagon-Burner
and his White-Whore Wife were financially broken to the point where they
had to cop a plea.
Due to the Estevan Detachment's foresight, they didn't "get any on 'em"
when the local yokel finally got his chain yanked on bogus grounds that
protected the City of Estevan from taking any responsibility for his years
of abuse of authority.

To bring you up to date, not only is the Wagon-Burners oldest little
glue-sniffer currently being railroaded on criminal charges, but the
Estevan RCMP are once again setting a fire under the Wagon-Burner's ass by
supporting the Provincial Game Warden's persecution of the Wagon-Burner for
daring to hunt on the land that we stole from him, once again saving
Federal dollars from having to be used to finance their dirty work.

Today's Humor:

"First they came for the Wagon-Burners, but I was not a Wagon-Burner, so I
didn't speak up. Then they came for the Revisionists, but I was not a
Revisionist, so I didn't speak up. Then they came for the Freedom of Speech
Advocates, but I was not a Freedom of Speech Advocate, so I did not speak
up.
"Then they came for the Jews, and I got to put pepper-spray in their
Jesus-Killing eyes..."
~ Constable Hettinga
"I *love* this country!"






