From: Information Security <guy@panix.com>
Date: Mon, 7 Sep 1998 04:15:17 +0800
To: cypherpunks@cyberpass.net
Subject: Re: 090498_crypto
Message-ID: <199809062012.QAA00594@panix7.panix.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Ying:

   >   From: Jim Choate <ravage@EINSTEIN.ssz.com>
   >
   >      Tauzin: FBI won't get crypto key and more on high-tech and Capitol Hill 
   >      September 3, 1998 5:55 PM PT
   >      Updated at 6:58 PM PT
   >      
   >      SAN FRANCISCO -- An influential Congressman says Congress is close to
   >      resolving the bitter dispute over encryption software, and it looks as
   >      though it will be decided in favor of the high-tech industry.
   >      
   >      U.S. Rep. Bill Tauzin, R-La., said flatly that "we're not going to
   >      give the FBI the keys to the encryption system." The remark came as
   >      part of a wide-ranging interview with ZDNN.

Yang:

Subject: Terrorist FBI, on Terrorism
Date: Fri, 4 Sep 1998 09:58:23 EDT

Statement for the Record
FBI Director Louis J. Freeh before the Senate Judiciary Committee,
September 3, 1998

Good morning Chairman Hatch and members of the judiciary committee. I
am pleased to be with you this morning as you explore the U.S.
Government's response to international terrorism.

[snip]

THE FUTURE

Would like to close by talking briefly about steps we can take to
further strengthen our abilities to prevent and investigate terrorist
activity.

ENCRYPTION

One of the most important of these steps involves the FBI's encryption
initiative. Communication is central to any collaborative effort --
including criminal conspiracies. Like most criminals, terrorists are
naturally reluctant to put the details of their plots down on paper.
Thus, they generally depend on oral or electronic communication to
formulate the details of their terrorist activities.

For this reason, the law enforcement community is very concerned about
the serious threat posed by the proliferation of encryption
technology. Current standards do not allow for law enforcement access
or the timely decryption of critical evidence obtained through lawful
electronic surveillance or search and seizures.

The FBI supports a balanced encryption policy that satisfies fourth
amendment concerns for privacy, the commercial needs of industry for
robust encryption, and the government's public safety and national
security needs.

The encryption capabilities available to criminals and terrorists
today effectively thwart the ability of law enforcement agencies to
implement the court-ordered surveillance techniques that have helped
put some of the nation's most dangerous offenders behind bars. Whether
a state police department is racing the clock to find a kidnapped
child or the FBI is attempting to track and prevent the destructive
ambitions of an international terrorist group, the need for timely
access to legally obtained electronic surveillance cannot be
overstated.

[snip]

EXPANSION OF FBI LEGATS

Likewise, the expansion of the number of FBI LEGATS around the world
has enhanced the ability of the FBI to prevent, respond to, and
investigate terrorist acts committed by international terrorists
against U.S. Interests worldwide. As evidenced by developments in the
embassy bombing cases in East Africa, the ability to bring
investigative resources to bear quickly in the aftermath of a
terrorist act can have significant impact on our ability to identify
those responsible. I encourage Congress to support our efforts to
counter the international terrorist threat by continuing to support
expansion of our LEGAT program.

[snip]




