From: success26@apexmail.com
Date: Mon, 20 Jul 1998 17:20:33 +0800
Subject: Need Large Income Fast??
Message-ID: <46788335@merits494.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Dear Prospective Entrepreneur;

I have been an attorney for 26 years, but recently I
joined a company which is only 3 years old, and is 
growing at a fantastic rate; in fact, after only 10 
months old, it was featured in SUCCESS MAGAZINE, and
it has been the #1 rated network marketing opportunity
for the last three years.

What makes this company and this opportunity I am 
offering you so great, is the fact that we (Marketing
Executives) have "EXCLUSIVE" marketing rights in the 
United States to new miracle products that are
providing dramatic benefits to people who have two of
the worst diseases known to mankind.  Americans who
learn about and need our products, can only get
them through us, and not from other companies, or the
corner drug store.

After getting into other companies in the last several
years, and going from company to company, and product
to product (mostly companies that failed, or had falsely
advertised products), I finally found this company that 
is truly "CREDIBLE," has tremendous products, a great
compensation plan, and, best of all, my customers are
calling me back month after month.

Since the products actually sell themselves, I'm NOT
constantly on the phone, or forever hustling all my
relatives and friends. Products that make people feel
better (especially natural products that have no side
effects, and do have a 60 day money back guarantee)
cause people to call me every month, instead of me 
calling them.

Our "exclusive" and "patented" all natural products
have also gone through the double blind clinical 
studies and have produced unbelievable sales in foreign
markets, and have only recently been introduced into
the United States, so our timing is also perfect.

If you are interested in trying our products and/or
looking at this business opportunity, call me toll-free
at 888-203-6668 and leave your name, telephone number,
and/or your address if you want more information. You 
also can respond to this e-mail if you so wish.

If you are ready to make some changes in your life, free
up some time to spend with your family, and make some
extra money, call me or e-mail me.  WHAT HAVE YOU GOT TO
LOSE?  I made that same call a few months ago, and I 
promise, you will be happy to hear more about this tre-
mendous company, its great products, and about how easy 
it will be for you to make that extra money.

Thanks, 
Clyde Fontenot


This message is brought to you from Clyde Fontenot, 
Attorney, 504 W. Main St., Ville Platte,LA.70586,
318-363-5535.




