From: "Jack Oswald / CEO / RPK Security" <Announcements_reply@rpkusa.com>
Date: Wed, 30 Sep 1998 23:22:01 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: ANNOUNCEMENT: RPK SECURITY AWARDED PATENTS FOR ENCRYPTONITE ENGINE IN U.S. AND NEW ZEALAND
Message-ID: <199810010614.XAA03563@proxy3.ba.best.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


You have received this message because at some time in the past your name was submitted to our e-mail mailing list database.  If you do not wish (or no longer wish) to receive announcements, updates and news concerning the RPK Encryptonite Engine or the RPK InvisiMail e-mail security products, please forward this message to remove@rpkusa.com

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

MEDIA ALERT

CONTACT
Paula Miller						Lyn Oswald
Nadel Phelan, Inc.					RPK Security Inc.
408-439-5570 x277					212-488-9891
paulam@nadelphelan.com				lynoswald@rpkusa.com	


RPK SECURITY AWARDED PATENTS FOR ENCRYPTONITE ENGINE IN U.S. AND NEW ZEALAND

SAN FRANCISCO, CA. September 15, 1998 - RPK Security, Inc., a technology leader in fast public key encryption, today announced that the technology behind the company's uniquely fast public key cryptosystem, the RPK Encryptonite Engine, was awarded U.S. patent number 5,799,088 on August 25, 1998 and New Zealand patent number 277,128 on August 17, 1998.
 
Based on the proven mathematics of Diffie-Hellman Key Exchange, the RPK Encryptonite Engine combines all the benefits of other public key systems (authentication, digital signatures and digital certificates) with the speed of a secret key system into one algorithm. With the superior performance offered by RPK's Encryptonite Engine, applications requiring streaming data, sound, video or large numbers of transactions, such as credit card payments, receive instantaneous responses and secure communication links.

"We believe these patents give us a significant, unique and enforceable competitive advantage over other providers of public key encryption products," said Jack Oswald, president and CEO of RPK Security. "The RPK patents confirm our technology leadership in strong and fast public key cryptography."

With development and distribution facilities outside of the U.S., RPK Security is able to provide its customers with a worldwide strong encryption solution that is available globally, unlike competing products that are restricted by U.S. export regulations. 

ABOUT RPK SECURITY
Founded in 1995, RPK Security, Inc. is a technology leader in fast public key cryptography.  Its flagship RPK Encryptonite(tm) Engine, a uniquely fast and strong public key encryption technology, is available worldwide in custom hardware and software toolkits on multiple platforms.  Developed from widely accepted security mathematics and techniques, the RPK Encryptonite Engine is easily embedded into new and existing hardware and software applications.  RPK's cryptographic research and product development is based in New Zealand, Switzerland and the U.K, with worldwide sales and marketing operations in San Francisco, CA.  Visit RPK's website at www.rpkusa.com or call (212) 488-9891.




