From: yq91sa9Up@aol.com
Date: Fri, 1 May 1998 14:58:19 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Master Wealth Builder......
Message-ID: <EEZt46thY3v8W8>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



 If You Qualify, You Could Net
 Yourself Well Over $150,000
 By The End Of 1998... Guaranteed!

 Greetings:
 My name is Marty. I would like to ask you to please take
 two minutes of you time to read the following. If you
 don't like what you see then please trash this mail and
 accept my apologies for this disturbance. I promise
 you I will not send you another. I am writing to
 introduce you to a strong, wealth building home based
 business that is NOT a Multilevel Marketing venture or
 some get "rich quick scheme"... a business that is more
 profitable than any network marketing, direct sales,
 franchise or investment opportunity in existence today.

 Who Will Be Allowed To Work With Me?

 I am looking for a limited group of serious minded
 entrepreneurs that have been looking for a solid
 business opportunity. I'm not looking for a huge
 response. I only want to work with people I feel have
 a "burning desire" to be successful. Can you visualize
 yourself earning $30,000 + net per month within the
 next year, if provided with the right opportunity to
 do so? Are you willing to commit to doing whatever it
 would take to be successful in this business once you
 completely understand it?

 How To Find Out If You Qualify

 To find out more, call toll free for more details:
  1-800-600-0343 ext.#1399. This is a recorded message
 that is available 24 hours a day. It is NOT a
 telemarketer. I am selecting individuals on a first
 come, first serve basis. If you are seriously
 interested...REPLY NOW! If you don't really feel
 you've got the right stuff to be successful, then
 please don't bother to respond. I only want to work
 with the motivated people who seriously want to make
 insane amounts of money!

 If I have reached you in error, please send mail with
 REMOVE in the subject heading and you will be
 immediately removed from subsequent mailings.

 Prosperous Regards,

 P.S. Once again, this is NOT MLM. Serious inquiries
 only please! You will work 100% from your phone. Age,
 appearance, skills, location, and transportation are
 NOT important! Only desire and commitment are important!

           1-800-600-0343 ext.#1399   DAY OR NIGHT







