From: "Vladimir Z. Nuri" <vznuri@netcom.com>
Date: Wed, 16 Sep 1998 02:14:55 +0800
To: cypherpunks@cyberpass.net
Subject: SNET: [FP] FW: Arkansas: Digital/Biometric Drivers License System
Message-ID: <199809160716.AAA24458@netcom13.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain




From: "ScanThisNews" <mcdonalds@airnet.net> (by way of jeremy.compton@stonebow.otago.ac.nz (Jeremy Compton))
Subject: SNET: [FP] FW: Arkansas: Digital/Biometric Drivers License System
Date: Wed, 16 Sep 1998 15:01:36 +1200
To: snetnews@world.std.com


->  SNETNEWS  Mailing List

[forwarded message]

Source:  PR Newswire
http://www.prnewswire.com

Viisage Technology, Inc. to Provide Statewide Digital Drivers License
System In Arkansas

    LITTLETON, Mass., Sept. 14 /PRNewswire/ -- Viisage Technology, Inc.
(Nasdaq: VISG), a leader in the emerging field of biometrics technology and
in providing digital identification systems and solutions, has been awarded
a $10.4 million contract by the State of Arkansas to provide a new digital
drivers license system with 158 locations across the State.

    Mike Munns, Arkansas Administrator of Driver Services, said, "We
conducted a comprehensive process to identify the best system value for
Arkansas drivers while seeking to improve the quality of service in our
offices and obtain the best technology available.  Viisage not only met
these requirements, they also demonstrated an understanding of our needs
and a commitment to be a true partner in this important project."

    Tom Colatosti, Viisage Vice President and COO, said, "We are pleased
about the opportunity to partner with the Arkansas Office of Driver
Services to provide Arkansas drivers with leadership technology and the
most secure licenses available.  The Arkansas contract will be managed by
the company's systems integration and identification card division that was
established in May 1998 when the company reorganized to create separate
systems integration and biometrics divisions.  This contract increases the
company's market share in the drivers license business and will contribute
to the growth and profitability of the systems integration and
identification card division."

    Bob Hughes, Viisage President and CEO, said, "The biometrics division
will continue to raise capital and invest profits, as needed, to develop
its unique facial recognition technology and products.  These products will
be sold through channels, including the company's systems integration
division, for identification, verification, security and other biometric
applications. Biometrics technology and, in particular, Viisage's facial
recognition technology are receiving intense interest from many market
segments.  Viisage seeks to achieve long term growth and profitability by
penetrating these new markets and developing products to meet market needs."

    With the Arkansas contract, Viisage systems provide more than 100
million digital identification cards under contracts for drivers license
programs in Arizona, Florida, Illinois, Massachusetts, New Mexico, North
Carolina, Ohio and Wisconsin, and for social services programs in
Connecticut, Massachusetts and New York.  Other Viisage projects include
voter registration programs in Jamaica and the Philippines and programs
with the Ohio Department of Corrections and the U.S. Department of
Treasury's Immigration and Naturalization Service.  Viisage also has
the world's largest facial recognition database with projects in
Massachusetts and Illinois.

    Viisage is a leading provider of digital identification systems and
solutions intended to improve personal convenience and security, deter
fraud and reduce identification program costs.  The company combines its
systems integration and software design capabilities with its proprietary
software and hardware products to create custom solutions in a wide range
of applications that can include national ID's, drivers licenses, law
enforcement, voter registration, social services, access control and
information, healthcare, financial services and retail. Viisage has also
devoted significant resources to become a leader in the emerging field
of biometrics with particular emphasis on patented facial recognition
technology for real-time and large database identification and verification
of individuals.  Viisage can be found on the World Wide Web at
http://www.viisage.com.

    This news release may contain forward-looking statements that involve
risks and uncertainties.  Forward-looking statements in this document and
those made from time to time by the Company through its senior management
are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements concerning
future plans or results are necessarily only estimates and actual results
could differ materially from expectations.  Certain factors that could
cause or contribute to such differences include, among other things,
potential fluctuations in quarterly results, the size and timing of award
and performance on contracts, dependence on large contracts and a limited
number of customers, lengthy sales and implementation cycles, changes in
management estimates incident to accounting for contracts, availability and
cost of key components, market acceptance of new or enhanced products and
services, proprietary technology and changing technology, competitive
conditions, system performance, management of growth, dependence on key
personnel and general economic and political conditions and other factors
affecting spending by customers.

SOURCE Viisage Technology, Inc.
Web Site: http://www.viisage.com

(c)1998 PR Newswire.
-----------------------
NOTE: In accordance with Title 17 U.S.C. section 107, this material is
distributed without profit or payment to those who have expressed a prior
interest in receiving this information for non-profit research and
educational purposes only. For more information go to:
http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/17/107.shtml
-----------------------

-----Original Message-----
From: believer@telepath.com [mailto:believer@telepath.com]
Sent: Tuesday, September 15, 1998 9:51 AM
To: believer@telepath.com
Subject: Arkansas: Digital/Biometric Drivers License System



-> Send "subscribe   snetnews " to majordomo@world.std.com
->  Posted by: "ScanThisNews" <mcdonalds@airnet.net> (by way of jeremy.compton@stonebow.otago.ac.nz (Jeremy Compton))




