From: Reeza! <howree@cable.navy.mil>
Date: Sun, 27 Sep 1998 04:36:41 +0800
To: cypherpunks@Algebra.COM
Subject: Re: Clinton's fake apologies (fwd)
In-Reply-To: <19980927052400.21818.qmail@hades.rpini.com>
Message-ID: <3.0.5.32.19980927194009.0083aca0@205.83.192.13>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



At 05:24 AM 9/27/98 -0000, Anonymous wrote:
>
>Well, this *is* a pathetic reason. You want Clinton impeached because the
>media tells you so.

Have you ever been in the military, Anonymouse? I've noticed that military,
and those with past military service or experience tend to identify with
different aspects of an issue than those without any sort of military
experience. As a serviceman myself, I am compelled to say that to me, you
sound like a 60s era war protester, or perhaps something far worse.
Objecting for reasons of princible, seemingly to spite the real world
considerations, and ignoring the reasons of princible that are in
contradiction to your own viewpoint. The real world is not a princibled
place, but some people do get bonus points for maintaining appearances.
Clinton just suffered an "Aw Shit!", he's lost his turn to play, he needs
to get his shit together and get out of the game. I trust you've also seen
the quote attributed to Clinton, on Nixon? Nixon must be turning over in
his grave, even if it isn't Clintons Quote.

I do not consider 'the presidency' to be a 'man'. I see it as an
institution, a figurehead, a place of honor. The President is a man who,
for four years, (or eight) places his own life in standby, for the greater
good of the nation. What good was served by all the affairs Clinton may
have and did have? What good was served by the apparent use of positional
authority to suppress evidence? What good would be served by allowing a
person with the quality set Clinton has demonstrated to remain in THAT Office?
It, more than many other things in american society, function on
'appearances'. That appearance is now tarnished. The sitting president has
lowered himself, and that office, irreparably. He, we and it are laughing
stocks around the world right now. Did you know that the sitting president
in the philippines used Clintons sex scandals in his own election campaign?
Something to do with Clinton getting all the sex scandals, him getting all
the sex. That was long BEFORE Clinton admitted to misrepresenting events. I
shudder to think how this will affect international negotiations, and
Status Of Forces Agreements around the world. Think the Chinese won't look
to use it in the ongoing human rights negotiations?

Yeah, I'm young enough to still feel patriotic, but old enough that I make
my own definition of that term, instead of blindly accepting someone elses.

I don't think a change is in order because I heard some horses ass for an
alphabet news agency say so, I think a change is in order because I
personally can't stand hypocrites, among other things. Especially
hypocrites who commit felonies, say "sorry" and I am expected to forgive,
and stand idly by while he gets away with it. As I've said before, I
personally could care less if he has an affair. But he had one with a
subordinate in his direct employ, then lied about it, repeatedly, even
while under oath in a court of law. He tried to use his positional
authority to suppress evidence, to intimidate, to get the case(s) dismissed. 
Yeah, I'm REAL PROUD(tm) of my Commander In Chief, he and
CSapronett@aol.com will both have a lot to talk about. Or was that you?

Perhaps you are one of the Klintonistas, with your "what is the big deal"
attitude, deliberately obfuscating the issue, sidelining the real topics
with irrelevant byline chatter. 

If that was me, I'd be doing jail time. If this is allowed to stand, it
will represent the opening salvo, and mark the beginning of the End of
America as a Great Nation(tm).

>As far as the "newby" flame, I've seen that corpse lists here twice recently.
>Maybe you've dated yourself? I remember a time without Reeza! posts... 

Yeah, I can imagine a time when crypto and anonymous accounts don't exist
anymore either. That doesn't mean that it would be a Good Thing(tm). You,
I, anyone is free to browse the archives, then represent self as an
'old-timer' on this list. From an anonymous account, who can challenge?

So what. you don't even have the courage to put your name, or an e-mail
account that can be replied to, when you send your "I'm better than you,
'cuz I've been on the list longer' drivel. Perhaps you have, but it doesn't
change anything.

I am still outspoken,
you are still loath to reveal your identity, even when discussing something
as innocuous as this. Spineless is the term normally used.
And Clinton is still an adulterous purjurer who needs conviction.

If you can't handle that, I suggest you discuss it with your family
physician. I'm sure a wee bit of prozac will help you deal with lifes
disappointments, you must be feeling especially lowly right now,,,, if you
are not, you should.

Reeza!



"...The world was on fire, but no one could save me but you...
	Strange what desire will make foolish people do...
		(and the background vocalists sang)
			This world is only gonna break your heart...."

					==C.I.==




