From: gitpro@mailcity.com
Date: Mon, 16 Nov 1998 00:07:03 -0800 (PST)
To: <curt@toad.com>
Subject: Mako Capital shares to triple in next few months, projects research company
Message-ID: <199811160806.AAA27640@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Mako Capital shares to triple in next few months, projects 
research company!

Mako Capital intent to merge with Sports Group International and 
market
Spalding Sports Drinks worldwide.

OTC BB - MAKO 3/4

What do Kiki Vandeweghe, Dorothy Hamill, Joe Namath, Bill Walton, 
Larry
Holmes and Clyde Drexler all have in common? They are all 
shareholders of a
dynamic sports drink company called Sports Group International

Mako Capital

On October 19, 1998 Mako Capital made a blockbuster announcement 
that was
obviously overlooked by the investment community. Mako signed a 
letter of
intent to merge with Sports Group International. Sports Group is a 
dynamic
company with an experienced, proven management team. Sports Group 
has
revolutionary products in the multi-billion dollar sports drink 
market.
We instantly fell in love with their oxygenated water. This is 
water with
seven times the oxygen of H20. It is a big hit with marathon 
runners and we
feel that there is a huge market for this product. They also have 
newly
formulated sports drinks to satisfy every market. Sports drinks 
designed for
kids, women and bodybuilders. They also have powdered products.
The key to this company is that their sports drinks are marketed 
under the
Spalding name. Spalding is one of the most recognized names in 
sports. You
can't buy that type of name recognition. We are told that the 
company has
1.2 million cases pre-sold for 1999 which should bring in more 
than twenty
million in revenue and 15% in profit (approximately 3 million). 
That would
be better than one dollar per share in earnings. Sports Groups 
management
team is headed by Kiki Vandeweghe, the former NBA All Star and 
Dean Miller,
the star executive of Megafoods. As president of Megafoods, Dean 
saw the
company grow from a couple of stores to 70 stores and $800 million 
in
revenue.
Realizing that much of the great success behind Gatorade was the 
advertising
campaign featuring Michael Jordan, SGI has procured promotions and
endorsements from athletes who are current shareholders like, 
Clyde Drexler,
Kiki Vanderweghe, Bill Walton, Larry Holmes, Joe Namath, Dorothy 
Hamill and
others.
Mako Capital has the right combination of great products, a proven
management team and a name recognized around the world, which will 
lead them
into the next millenium. We are looking for the stock to trade $2 
- $3 short
term and $5 - $7 by summer of 1999.

For more information contact: Financial Internet Group 
800-959-9122


Disclaimer:  Mako Capital has paid Freedom Rock Partners 150,000 
shares of
free trading stock and options to purchase 100,000 shares at 
$1.00. For more
information please see our disclaimer.


NOTE: 
For those on the internet who do not want to recieve exciting 
messages such as this.....

*We strive to comply with all state and federal laws and to send 
ads only to interested parties.

*This ad is not intended for nor do we knowingly send to 
Washington State residents. 

* OR CLICK_HERE_TO_GOTO_REMOVE-LIST.COM   (http://remove-list.com)
Remove-List is a free public service offering to help the general 
public
get removed from commercial mailings lists and has not sent this 
message.
If you want their help please add your name to their list and we 
you will
not receive a commercial email from us or any other member bulk 
emailer.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




