From: "Blanc" <blancw@cnw.com>
Date: Mon, 5 Oct 1998 04:40:44 +0800
To: <cypherpunks@einstein.ssz.com>
Subject: RE: I thought of an initialy regulated industry!... (fwd)
Message-ID: <000c01bdf045$4c5b3f60$7e8195cf@blanc>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



>From Jim Choate:

: The bottem line as to why free-market economies don't work is that it isn't
: in the producers best interest to have a educated consumer.  They might buy
: somebody elses product or start their own company. Both of those are bad for
: profits.
:
: Free-market mavens forget that producers are just as greedy and corrupt as
: everyone else, there is no fair competition in an unregulated market given
: the pshychological make up of human beings.
................................................................................
........


Free market economices don't "work", simply because they are run by humans, who
regularly suffer psychological breakdowns, envy, and mistakes of judgement, not
to mention disreputable marketing departments.   Regulated economies, however,
are run by government drones, and are therefore perfect vehicles which, with
unfailing success, make all of their captive customers happy.

Everyone knows this, as we witness the apparent success of all those regulated
economies overseas which outshine the U.S. by three (maybe four) orders of
magnitude.  No one over there envies the U.S. productivity and standard of
living, and they never are moved to leave and come live over here, to give up
the benefits which extreme regulation confers upon them, in place of the
(admittedly mixed) free-market fiasco which operates over here, where all things
are uncertain and frighteningly unpredictable.

In fact, many people become so disgusted with the monopolies and disfunctional
liberty which exists here, that they regularly expatriate to go live in places
like Sweden, Germany, even Canada, where they have the peace of mind and
assurance that State coercion will provide for their every need  -  in a most
efficient, timely, prompt, and user-friendly manner.

They never have to worry about who has more or less, who is better or worse, or
who knows better than anyone what is best for everyone.  It's all been
pre-established and exists incontrovertibly in their national consumer database.


   ..
Blanc




