From: info@innovativetx.com
Date: Sat, 31 Oct 1998 12:36:17 -0800 (PST)
To: info@innovativetx.com
Subject: Company Press Release - Oct. 29
Message-ID: <199810301949.TAA06109@websites>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Thursday October 29, 12:55 pm Eastern Time
Company Press Release

SOURCE: Innovative Tracking Solutions Corp.
Innovative Tracking Solutions Joins Forces With Leading Medical Experts; Private Practice Protocols to be Introduced in 4th Qtr 1998

LAGUNA HILLS, Calif., Oct. 29 /PRNewswire/ -- Innovative Tracking Solutions Corp. (OTC Bulletin Board: IVTX - news) announced today that it has teamed up with three leading experts in three significant areas of expertise, Incontinence, Woundcare and Injury Prevention/Ergonomics to develop and implement three new protocols for the Private Practice(TM) Vibration Reminder System for specific applications of the product in their respective fields. 

The Private Practice(TM) Vibration Reminder Disk is worn on the body or in the pocket and automatically, consistently and silently vibrates at specific intervals throughout the day to prompt or remind patients to do their prescribed therapy regimen at home, work or wherever they may be. The product is currently being used in the healthcare industry for over 50 applications from post-surgical to biofeedback. 

``In addition to general rehabilitation, we have isolated three of the most significant and prevalent problems and situations in which our product has the most impact,'' stated Dianna Cleveland, president and CEO of Innovative Tracking Solutions. ``We are honored to have these well-known experts spearheading the development of these new protocols which will help professionals in these fields to more quickly and effectively implement the Private Practice(TM) system with their patients and clients.'' 

In Incontinence Therapy: Genevieve Messick, M.D., was an integral team member in the development of a behavioral incontinence program that is delivered in over sixty clinics throughout the country. The program carries an 80 percent success rate for eliminating incontinence symptoms in properly selected patients. Dr. Messick currently has her own practice, received her B.S. from John Caroll University in Cleveland, Ohio and graduated cum laude from Ohio State University College of Medicine in Columbus, Ohio. Dr. Messick has recently received a patent for a device for the treatment of pelvic floor dysfunction and she is a member of AOA (Alpha Omega Alpha -- a national medical honor society). 

``We are thrilled to have Dr. Messick's expertise and enthusiasm behind this project. She is a prominent and respected expert in her field and she clearly envisions the dramatic impact our product will have in addressing the problem of incontinence which afflicts more than 13 million Americans,'' stated Scott Postle, vice president, Healthcare Division of Innovative Tracking Solutions. ``Over 80 percent of cases of urinary incontinence can be cured or improved with proper training and compliance with Kegel exercise therapy. Private Practice(TM) is a natural extension to these therapies, including biofeedback.'' 

``After finding out about the Private Practice(TM) Vibration Reminder Disk, we immediately began prescribing the device to our patients,'' said Dr. Messick. ``We have had a positive response from our patients and I am excited about working with Innovative Tracking Solutions in developing this protocol.'' 

In Wound Care: Evonne Fowler, RN, CNS, CWOCN (Certified Wound Ostomy Continence Nurse), is President of Dynamic New Directions, an educational and consulting company in Banning, Calif. She is a Clinical Nurse Specialist in Gerontology having graduated from the UCLA School of Nursing. Ms. Fowler is currently in practice as a Wound/Skin Care Specialist at Kaiser Permanente Hospital, Bellflower, Calif., where she manages the Chronic Wound Care Center. She serves on the Editorial Board for Ostomy/Wound Management and chairs the Annual Advanced Wound Care Symposium sponsored by Health Management Publications, Inc., and is a founding board member and President of the newly formed Association for the Advancement of Wound Care (AAWC). The AAWC is a multidisciplinary organization whose mission is to facilitate optimal care for people with wounds. She is also a past member of the National Pressure Ulcer Advisory Panel (NPUAP). 

``Working with Evonne has been quite illuminating. Her 25 plus years in wound care nursing and vast knowledge of the challenges that exist in Ostomy/Wound Care today has been instrumental in developing our Wound Care Protocol,'' said Mr. Postle. 

``I'm a true believer in that preventing pressure ulcers is much easier than treating them once they develop. It's simply a matter of frequent and consistent repositioning or 'unweighting' throughout the day,'' stated Ms. Fowler. ``This little disk is so effective in prompting bedridden or wheelchair-bound patients to do this repositioning that I expect it to save the healthcare industry tremendous dollars in wound care!'' 

In Work Injury Prevention and Ergonomics: Michael S. Melnik, M.S., O.T.R., owner and president of Minneapolis-based Prevention Plus, Inc., has authored and co-authored several works on Cumulative Trauma Disorder (CTD), back injury and other current ergonomic related issues. He has consulted for firms such as Fluor Daniel, Pepsi-Cola, Wal-Mart and United Airlines, to name a just a few. Mr. Melnik is an Occupational Therapist with an advanced degree in exercise physiology from the University of Illinois. His area of expertise includes Employee Education/Training, Ergonomics Programs, Job Site Stretching and Warm-Up Programs. 

``Mr. Melnik's practical approach to injury prevention fits extremely well with our company philosophy. He is well respected in the industry and a very charismatic speaker which is sure to have the industry buzzing about our product,'' commented Cleveland. ``His knowledge and expertise will bring a pragmatic focus to the products' applications for all types of work environments for all types of companies.'' 

``I am excited at the Private Practice(TM) product and the possibilities it holds to compliment what has been my passion for the last 10 years; inviting positive changes in behavior,'' stated Mr. Melnik. ``At Prevention Plus, we are always looking for more ways to improve the work environment and to promote safety and awareness on the job. I truly believe the Private Practice(TM) system is a cutting edge solution that makes a great deal of sense for most companies today. I am confident that many will add this simple product to their existing injury prevention and ergonomic programs and that it will give growing companies the ''jump start`` they need to finally begin a program they can afford.'' 

Based in Laguna Hills, CA, Innovative Tracking Solutions innovates, designs, and develops sophisticated, yet simple products that have broad ranges of applications. The rapid growth of the company's Healthcare Products Division is a result of aggressive R&D and marketing, solid relationships with companies within the healthcare infrastructure, and a consistent focus on pioneering extensions to current healthcare services with a multitude of product applications. 

For more information regarding IVTX or the Private Practice(TM) Vibration Reminder Disk, call 1-888-4REMEMBER (473-6362) or visit the company's website: http://www.innovativetx.com or hyperlink http://www.privatepractice.com. 

SOURCE: Innovative Tracking Solutions Corp.






