From: owner-cypherpunks
Date: Mon, 16 Feb 1998 02:39:18 -0800 (PST)
Subject: Turn Your Computer Into a Personal Mail Server
Message-ID: <199802161039.CAA05722@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Look at the Headers in this Message.
If you like what you see read on.

This message was sent to you courtesy of the amazing new technology of  the "Rapid Fire 
Mail Server" (RFMS).  RFMS transforms your computer into a personal mail server.  With no 
additional hardware, RFMS software will give you complete control of  your mailings, because 
the mail you send will originate from your computer and be delivered directly into the mailbox 
of your recipient.  Since the mail originates from your computer, it is no longer necessary to 
use your Internet Service Provider's mail server.

When you use the previous generation stealth or cloaking type programs, they work by 
uploading your mail to your provider's mail server.  They can also be programmed to send 
mail through other providers mail servers without authorization (this is considered theft of service).  
The problem is, the previous generation stealth type programs upload the messages faster than 
these mail servers can process them. 

Many times this causes a provider's mail server to bog down and crash.  Obviously, this will make 
providers furious with you.  Furthermore, you may think that you are sending hundreds of thousands 
of messages, unfortunately, most of it simply gets filtered and deleted by the mail server.  You are 
lucky to get 10%-20% of that mail delivered.  With Rapid Fire Mail Server software YOUR computer 
emulates a mail server and YOU actually control and watch all your mail being delivered piece by 
piece. There is a 100% delivery rate with this program anywhere on the internet. We did say 100% 
delivery rate to any internet email addresses. A bold claim but it is true.  This is the latest technical 
advance in bulk email since the advent of the stealth type programs.  

This program verifies domains and validity of email addresses before sending mail. This 
dramatically reduces your bounced back undeliverables. Bounced back undeliverables 
can sure bog down a server. You can also control where you want any bounced back 
mail to go. It can go to any email address you want with Rapid Fire Mail Server.  

Rapid Fire Mail Server can work with ANY dial up internet account, an ISDN line or a T-1 or T-3. 
It runs on Windows 95 or NT.

We have not heard of any person losing a dial up account with this software. One reason 
bulk email is so frowned upon with numerous ISP's is people try to send as much mail 
as they can, as quick as they can and crash the mail server of the ISP. This won't happen 
with Rapid Fire Mail Server software since you don't use the mail server of the ISP to 
send your mail. The program actually sends the mail directly from your computer which 
is now a bona fide mail server, to the recipients mail server avoiding any potential blocks 
that would prevent you from reaching those on your mailing list. You do not have to
"forge" headers or randomize anything to have 100% of your mail delivered, although 
the program does allow for randomization and customizing of headers. You can send
mail omitting the "to" "from" and "reply to" portions of your headers.   

Want to send out your messages in color. Not a problem with Rapid Fire Mail Server. Just 
select a font color with your mouse, and then click on a background color as well. Want to 
make your font bold or put it into italics, just point and click. Want your message centered or 
shifted left or right, once again just point and click.

Rapid Fire Mail Server works with any Windows 95 or NT computer. It requires no additional 
hardware or software.

The Rapid Fire Mail Server sends at speeds up to 80,000 messages per hour DELIVERED using 
a modest pentium and a 28.8 modem. Rates will dramatically increase with an ISDN or cable 
modem and of course with a T-1 they will be even faster. 

If you want to take advantage of this breakthrough in Bulk EMail Technology give us a 
call. Oh, if you were wondering the program costs $700.  We don't plan on repeat 
mailings for this product. If you think the price is too high, well we can sell you Stealth for 
$200. You might be happy with Stealth if you don't mind frequent loss of dial-up accounts, 
a lot of complaints, not getting a lot of your mail delivered due to blocks and crashed mail s
ervers deleting your mail, along with the resulting low response rate from your mailings, 
then stealth would probably make you happy. LOL

Call us at 1-612-557-0034
for more info and ordering info.  
So give us a call today.









