From: "A. Sheeple" <ass@dev.null>
Date: Wed, 18 Mar 1998 09:55:13 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: They don't need no stinking privacy!
Message-ID: <35102602.1811@dev.null>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


An Open Letter To The CypherPunks:

Due to the large amounts of ridicule heaped upon the Sheeple family
by members of the CypherPunks list, I have decided to write to the
list to clarify a few of the issues on which our family's stances
are apparently misunderstood by people outside the pen.

First of all, we are AdamAnt about retaining our right to privacy,
but we recognize the need for the authorities to invade other people's 
right to privacy, in order to protect us from them.

We demand our right to a fair and impartial trial before a jury of
our peers, but we recognized the need for law enforcement agencies
and the justice system to take whatever steps are needed to make
certain that others are convicted in accordance with the desires
of the majority of their betters, according to the results of the
Sheeple polls taken by CNN and People's Court.
(Note: We, the Sheeple, are willing to do our part, and look the other
 way when those responsible for our protection need to stretch the
 boundaries of belief by claiming that a black wife-beater is not
 a suspect in the murder of his wife and her white lover, as they
 climb over a fence onto his private property, without a warrant,
 saying, "We're white men from the government, and we're here to
 help a Black-Afro American.]

We wish to exercise our right to have security in our private 
communications by employing strong cryptography, but we also
recognize the need for our government to intercept communications
by foreigners, in order to protect us and to manipulate world events
in a manner that will keep the price of our TV's as low as possible.

We wish to exercise our right to free speech, but we recognize the
need of authorities to prevent filth and vermin from using disgusting
and perverted language such as, "Baah...Baah...", instead of righteous
and politically correct language such as "Baaa...Baaa."

In short, or position is that we wish to retain all of our rights
and freedoms, but support them being compromised or taken away from
others, for the good of the Sheeple.

A. Sheeple





