From: "Jack Oswald / CEO / RPK Security" <Announcements_reply@rpkusa.com>
Date: Wed, 21 Oct 1998 14:40:28 -0700 (PDT)
To: Announcements@rpkusa.com
Subject: ANNOUNCEMENT: RPK SECURITY'S "SAFECRACKER CHALLENGE" INVITES USERS TO "BREAK" RPK ENCRYPTONITE ENGINE AND WIN $10,000
Message-ID: <199810212135.OAA11043@proxy4.ba.best.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


You have received this message because at some time in the past your name was submitted to our e-mail mailing list database.  If you do not wish (or no longer wish) to receive announcements, updates and news concerning the RPK Encryptonite Engine or the RPK InvisiMail e-mail security products, please forward this message to remove@rpkusa.com

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

CONTACT
Paula Miller							Lyn Oswald
Nadel Phelan, Inc.						RPK Security Inc.
408-439-5570 x277						212-488-9891
paulam@nadelphelan.com					lynoswald@rpkusa.com	


RPK SECURITY'S "SAFECRACKER CHALLENGE" INVITES USERS TO "BREAK" RPK ENCRYPTONITE ENGINE AND WIN $10,000

SAN FRANCISCO, CA. October 21, 1998 - RPK Security, Inc. (www.rpkusa.com), a technology leader in fast public key encryption, announced today the "SafeCracker Challenge", a contest offering US$10,000 to the first person who breaks the technology behind the company's uniquely fast public key cryptosystem, RPK Encryptonite Engine. 

In order to receive the cash reward, participants must download the encrypted test document and test public key from RPK Security's website, www.rpkusa.com, and then submit via email the private key that corresponds to the current test public key, or the correctly decrypted test document.

"We're launching the SafeCracker Challenge to demonstrate that the RPK Encryptonite Engine provides the most secure, fast and flexible public key system on the market today," said Jack Oswald, president and CEO of RPK Security. "Recently patented in New Zealand and the US, the technology behind the RPK Encryptonite Engine is based on the same mathematics as Diffie-Hellman Key Exchange, a widely used algorithm for creating secure network-based communications systems, and is highly respected by security experts." 

The RPK Encryptonite Engine is a uniquely fast public key algorithm for encryption, authentication and digital signatures. It offers a combination of the benefits of commonly used public key systems (ease of key management, authentication and digital signatures) and the high performance characteristics of commonly used symmetric or "secret key" systems. Developed outside of the U.S., the RPK Encryptonite Engine is available globally with strong encryption, unlike competing products that are restricted by U.S. export regulations.

ABOUT RPK SECURITY
Founded in 1995, RPK Security, Inc. is a technology leader in fast public key cryptography.  Its flagship RPK Encryptonite(tm) Engine, a uniquely fast and strong public key encryption technology, is available worldwide in custom hardware and software toolkits on multiple platforms.  Developed from widely accepted security mathematics and techniques, the RPK Encryptonite Engine is easily embedded into new and existing hardware and software applications.  RPK's cryptographic research and product development is based in New Zealand, Switzerland and the U.K, with worldwide sales and marketing operations in San Francisco, CA.  Visit RPK's website at www.rpkusa.com or call (212) 488-9891.





