From: netcenter-news@netscape.com
Date: Mon, 29 Jun 1998 22:39:42 -0700 (PDT)
To: <cypherpunks@toad.com>
Subject: Netcenter News - Volume 8 - July 1998
Message-ID: <199806300539.WAA26479@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


  
 

Title: Netscape Netcenter News - July 1998








































Welcome to Netcenter
Netcenter is dedicated to the proposition that you should be able to find everything you need online in one place. This newsletter is one of the free benefits you receive for registering with a Netcenter program.



























Employers! Job seekers! Post a job or resume, browse job listings, promote your company, or get career information easily with Netcenter's new Career Center.























A beta version of Netscape Communicator 4.5 will be available to the public in early July. This latest version of Communicator will include improvements such as Smart Browsing as well as enhanced messaging and roaming access.














 



 

 
A 1998 SPA Codie Award Winner, Netscape Publishing Suite is now just $49.95 ($129.95 value). Get MasterClips 33,000 or Net Accelerator for just $10 with purchase.
















Netscape respects your online time and Internet privacy. If you would
prefer not to receive the monthly Netcenter News, please go to the Netscape
section of In-Box Direct and uncheck the Netcenter News
item. You may also, click here to send an unsubscribe email
or reply to this message with the word unsubscribe in the subject line.



Copyright (c) 1998. 
Netscape Communications Corporation.
All rights reserved.





























NETSCAPE 
NETCENTER: 
YOUR 
SPRINGBOARD 
TO 
THE 
INTERNET



Jump from here. That's the launch-point attitude at Netcenter's new Internet portal. Starting in July, Netcenter will incorporate 16 new business and consumer channels, along with a variety of new services. From downloading software upgrades automatically to sending flowers, Netcenter channels offer immediate access to goods, services, and a wealth of information.
 
Among the new services, Smart Browsing is designed to help you navigate the tricky waters of the Internet. With Internet Keywords, simply type a word such as "Ford" and blast to Ford's site. What's Related displays a list of dynamic links to related sites - great for online research or shopping. Netscape Search & Directory boosts your searches with a complete line-up of search engines in one location. Use My Netscape to design your "home on the web," a personalized home page that displays the information you use every day - news, stock quotes, sports, and more - the moment you log on. WebMail, Netcenter's free email service, allows you to respond to messages automatically and to integrate your organizer's address book with your email. Members can scan incoming attachments for viruses and even be paged when they receive high-priority messages.
 
Netscape Netcenter. Dive in - the water's fine.




SmartUpdate is expanding! Netscape has signed agreements with more than 20 leading software companies to make their products available, free of charge, for automatic download via the SmartUpdate service.




Netcenter members can SAVE $10 on all software at Netscape Software Depot by software.net. Limited time offer!




Join Member Directory and choose your Netcenter member name now - before the Netcenter 2.0 rush. Then, search for friends or new acquaintances.




Thanks to everyone who took part in last month's survey about online communities!
Here is what 2000 of you told us:

In general, newsgroups and instant messaging are more popular than chat.
Only 15 percent of you hadn't tried any kind of online community.


Of those who do visit communities, 44 percent go daily and 20 percent go several times
a day.


The thing you like most about your visits is the ability to see what other
people are thinking.


The most popular forum in Netcenter's Professional Connections is the Product
Center.

This month's survey is about customizing web pages. We invite you to tell us what you'd like to see in a personalized home page!


















