From: Leif Ericksen <phantom@wwa.com>
Date: Tue, 18 Aug 1998 06:11:57 -0700 (PDT)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: European freedoms...
In-Reply-To: <4ba9a7724438e3da22a58b331b341097@anonymous>
Message-ID: <35D97D14.50DB96B0@wwa.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Secret Squirrel wrote:
> 
> >With the exception of some lifestyle options Europeans probably have
> >less freedoms than Americans.
> 
> How come that the fraction of Americans in prison is ten times higher
> than the fraction of West Europeans?

(LONG... summary, AmeriKa lets its people get away with to much.  We try
to spare lives of criminals. Plus the laws are weak so people do not
really fear prision.)

Well lets see.

In America we are allowed to own guns depending on where you are.  As I
understand it in London you can own a gun but it is stored a a gun club
not at your own house.  The Bobbies (sp?) do not carry guns, only the
special forces police units ( like the SWAT of the US. ) It was rumored
once to me if they call those guys our you are as good as dead.

In Japan (my wife as a Marine and was stationed in Okinawa for almost a
year)  if you go to prison you eat fish heads and rice, and you may not
live a long time in the prison (that is what she stated they were told).

Now Singapore does not screw around either.  They just might beat you
with a cane for spray painting your name on the wall. ( The US at best
slaps your hands with a little fine, and maybe community service.)

Lets see now the countries around the Saudi area as I understand it have
tough alcohol, and theft laws.  In some cases your are just terminated
in others you loose a hand.


Now over all I may be way off base, but does it not seem that the US is
a good place to live we have many freedoms.. Commit a crime either get a
slap on the hand or get three squares and a rack. (Oh three meals and a
bed.)  IN some cases being in prison is better for some people here than
not being their. Free food, Free medical care, heat/ac, free workout
equipment, and we now even have those in prison being able to sue the
jailers.  When did that happen anyway, I thought you were supposed to
loose almost all rights once in jail.


DAMN liberal pacifists in this country...  Yes it would suck to go to
jail, *IF* I was living in the streets with now place to go and with no
hope maybe I would commit a crime to get a free bed, meal, et al.

OH another special note:  Towns that have gun laws, like Chicago have
higher crime rates it seems than towns that can have guns.  Like
DesPLains after they enacted a hand gun ban crime increased there. 
HUMMMM, and as I understand it Chicago already has a ban on hand guns,
but guess what they are all over the place.  Go figure.

Time for AmeriKa to learn from other countries, and get tougher on
CRIME, and people that commit said crimes.  AmeriKa should not punish
those that are trying to be decent people by saying you can not protect
your self.
AmeriKa should not let criminals sue a homeowner that shot them while
they were breaking into said homeowners house. AmeriKa should wake up
and smell the coffee and realize that it is hot and *IF* they are stupid
and spill it on themselves go OH shit I am stupid, and not SUE the food
chain for millions of dollars because the coffee was to hot. AmeriKa,
should do as other countries do...  If person A sues person B, and
person A looses the case, person A should pay person B's legal fees.  As
it is now Person A pays their own fees, and person B pays their own
fees.

So do you think we have a little problem here?  I do.  However, I still
believe we live in one of the best places to live in the world. I have
been told this by many of visitors from other countries...


HUMMM  I wonder why.


				- Leif Ericksen




