From: info@homebusinesscentral.net
Date: Tue, 7 Jul 1998 09:56:42 -0700 (PDT)
To: <cypherpunks-unedited@toad.com>
Subject: MAKE MORE MONEY ONLINE
Message-ID: <199807071656.JAA23629@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Dear Friend and Internet Entrepreneur,

Discover little known ways of how to promote virtually any product, 
service or idea online and see income within 24 hours. Guranteed!
 
It's finally here!

**ALL NEW** E-Mail Marketing Home Study Course reveals
how to use responsible, targeted, e-mail marketing in your business
to boost Web site traffic, generate leads, sell products, and make
more sales online.

Learn totally new information about how to e-mail your sales message to
prospects and sell your products and services online without getting flamed. 

Discover detailed techniques for using opt-in marketing, 
compiling mailing lists, the secrets of writing ad copy, and much more. 

You will learn:

How to create targeted e-mail lists of prospects who 
are as much as 5 times more responsive than names you can rent or buy. 

Discover which e-mail management and sending software is best.
(And Receive A FREE 10 Day Trial Version Of The Best One)

Discover which teaser ads and subject lines get your mail opened and
responded to quickly. 

How to use e-mail to generate qualified traffic to a Web site. 
And Much Much More....

You will receive an extensive step by step
course guiding you every step of the way!

Plus as part of this national marketing test if you ACT NOW! you are 
going to receive as a bonus gift:
"The Secrets To Successful Search Engine Submission" Audio series
Learn how to get on top and stay on top!

"I generated 19 brand new paying customers in less than a week with this
course" Thank You

To learn more about this exciting course please visit us at 

http://www.homebusinesscentral.net/emarket.html

This is a very limited offer, so act now!

To be removed from this list please respond with "remove" in 
the subject field


World Tek Inc.
7210 Jordan Ave.
Canoga Park CA. 91303
1-818-718-9429































