From: Spam the President <president@whitehouse.gov>
Date: Sat, 9 May 1998 17:52:09 -0700 (PDT)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Spy Satellite Launched
Message-ID: <3554EC42.5E33D640@whitehouse.gov>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


http://www.abcnews.com/sections/science/DailyNews/rocket980508.html

                         C A P E   C A N A V E R A L,  Fla.,  May 8 - A
top
                         secret spy satellite blasted off on
                         Friday atop the U.S. military's most
                         powerful rocket booster. 
                              The 20-story U.S. Air Force Titan 4B
                         rocket, carrying the classified National
                         Reconnaissance Office spacecraft, lifted off
its
                         Cape Canaveral launch pad at 9:38 p.m. EST.
                              The rocket's comet-like streak through the
                         moon-lit night sky was visible as far away as
                         Orlando.
                              According to the trade journal Aviation
                         Week and Space Technology, the Titan, built by
                         Lockheed Martin Corp., placed an electronic
                         eavesdropping satellite into orbit.
                              "It will be used to listen in on
                         communications in hostile areas, such as the
                         Middle East and North Korea," said Craig
                         Covault, the magazine's space technology
                         editor.
                              The rocket soared into the sky several
hours
                         late after a problem-plagued countdown. Air
                         Force launch controllers had to deal with
                         technical trouble at a tracking station and
high
                         upper-level winds.
                              The countdown was also disrupted by a
                         container ship and a small sail boat that
strayed
                         into the launch danger area in the Atlantic
                         Ocean, east of Cape Canaveral.




