From: Ray Hirschfeld <R.Hirschfeld@cwi.nl>
Date: Tue, 15 Dec 1998 17:47:29 -0800 (PST)
To: R.Hirschfeld@cwi.nl
Subject: FC99 Preliminary Conference Program
Message-ID: <UTC199812160140.CAA00514.ray@vanity.cwi.nl>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain
Content-Length: 8499
Lines: 286


                      Financial Cryptography '99
                 February 22-25, 1999, Anguilla, BWI
                    Preliminary Conference Program

FC99, the third international conference on financial data security
and digital commerce, will be held in Anguilla, British West Indies.
FC99 aims to bring together persons involved in both the financial and
data security fields to foster cooperation and exchange of ideas.  The
conference is organized by the International Financial Cryptography
Association (IFCA).


PRELIMINARY CONFERENCE PROGRAM

Monday 22 February

Session 1: Electronic Commerce

Experimenting with electronic commerce on the PalmPilot
Neil Daswani, Dan Boneh (Stanford, U.S.A.)

Blinding of credit card numbers in the SET protocol
Hugo Krawczyk (Technion, Israel)

Session 2: Anonymity Control

Trustee tokens: Simple and practical anonymous digital coin tracing
Ari Juels (RSA Laboratories, U.S.A.)

A new approach for anonymity control in electronic cash systems
Tomas Sander, Amnon Ta-Shma (ICSI, U.S.A.)

Session 3: Fraud Management

E-cash systems with randomized audit
Yacov Yacobi (Microsoft Research, U.S.A.)

Assessment of counterfeit transaction detection systems for smart card
based ecash
Kazuo Ezawa, Gregory Napiorkowski, Mariusz Kossarski (Mondex International,
U.S.A.)


Tuesday 23 February

Session 4: Invited Speaker

Adi Shamir (Weizmann Institute, Israel)

Session 5: Public-Key Certificates

Reasoning about public-key certification: On bindings between entities and
public keys
Reto Kohlas, Ueli Maurer (ETH, Switzerland)

Online certificate status checking in financial transactions: The case for
re-issuance
Barbara Fox, Brian LaMacchia (Microsoft, U.S.A.)

Online certificate checking: One year later
Panel discussion led by Michael Myers (VeriSign, U.S.A.)


Wednesday 24 February

Session 6: Steganography

Playing `hide and seek' with stored keys
Adi Shamir (Weizmann Institute, Israel), Nicko van Someren (nCipher, England)

On channel capacity and modulation in watermarking of digital still images
Markus Breitbach, Hideki Imai (University of Tokyo, Japan)

Session 7: Content Distribution

Towards making broadcast encryption practical
Michel Abdalla (U.C. San Diego), Yuval Shavitt and Avishai Wool (Bell
Labs, U.S.A.)

Conditional access concepts and principles
David Kravitz and David Goldschlag (Divx, U.S.A.)

Fair use, intellectual property, and the information economy
Panel discussion led by Joan Feigenbaum (AT&T Labs, U.S.A.)


Thursday 25 February

Session 8: Anonymity Mechanisms

Anonymous authentication of membership in dynamic groups
Stuart Schecter (Harvard), Todd Parnell, Alexander Hartemink (MIT, U.S.A.)

Some open issues and new directions in group signatures
Giuseppe Ateniese (Universita di Genova, Italy), Gene Tsudik (USC ISI,
U.S.A.)

Session 9: Auctions and Markets

Anonymous investing: Hiding the identities of stockholders
Philip MacKenzie (Bell Labs, U.S.A.), Jeffrey Sorensen (IBM Research, U.S.A.)

Fair on-line auctions without special trusted parties
Stuart Stubblebine (AT&T Labs, U.S.A.), Paul Syverson (Naval Research Lab,
U.S.A.)

Session 10: Distributed Cryptography

"Dynamic Fault"-robust cryptosystems meet organizational needs for dynamic
control
Yair Frankel and Moti Yung (CertCo, U.S.A.)

Improved magic ink signatures using hints
Markus Jakobsson (Bell Labs, U.S.A.), Joy Muller (Gutenberg University,
Germany)


RUMP SESSION

In addition to the regular conference program, a rump session will be
held on the evening of Tuesday 23 February to provide an opportunity
for less formal presentations.  Although the rump session will be
organized during the conference itself, advance proposals may be
submitted by email.  Rump session contributions will not appear in the
conference proceedings.

Send rump session contributions to:
Matt Blaze
email: mab@research.att.com


EXHIBITION

An exhibition will be held in conjunction with the technical program,
with product displays, demonstrations, and presentations of a
business-oriented nature.  Scientific sessions are primarily scheduled
for the mornings and exhibition sessions for the afternoons.


CONFERENCE VENUE

The conference will be held at Chandeliers, the conference facility of
the InterIsland Hotel, which is on Road Bay, near Sandy Ground
Village, in the South Hill section of Anguilla.  The conference will
have TCP/IP internet access.  Shuttle service between the conference
and the Mariners hotel will be available.


REGISTRATION

Registration can be done via the web at URL http://fc99.ai/.  The fee
for the conference, which covers all conference materials and events
(including preproceedings, final proceedings, attendance at scientific
sessions, and breakfast and lunch each day of the conference), is:

$850 regular registration
$350 academic registration
$150 student registration

An additional $50 fee applies to registrations for which payment is
received after January 1, 1999.

A $100 discount ($50 for academic and student registrations) is
available to participants who pay their registration fee by electronic
money.

Payment may be made by credit card, bank transfer, electronic money,
or cash.


STIPENDS

A limited number of stipends to help defray the costs of attendance
may be available to full-time students with a paper accepted for
presentation at the conference.  If you would like to apply for a
stipend, please contact the General Chair at the email address listed
below.


HOTEL ACCOMODATION

The conference hotel is not recommended except to those seeking budget
accomodations.  The recommended hotel is Mariners, where a block
reservation has been made.  To reserve a room, please call the hotel
at +1 (809) 497-2671 and mention that you will be attending FC99.
Information about other hotels is available at URL http://fc99.ai.


WELCOME RECEPTION

A welcome reception will be held from 6:30pm to 8:00pm on Monday,
February 22, 1999, the evening of the first day of the conference.


GENERAL INFORMATION

Visas

Visas are not required for citizens of most American and European
countries.  If you are uncertain about whether you need a visa,
contact the local British consulate for information.

Getting to Anguilla

>From North America, Anguilla is usually reached via San Juan (Puerto
Rico).  From Europe, the best connections are via
St. Maarten/St. Martin (from Amsterdam or Paris), or Antigua (from
London).  St. Martin is very close to Anguilla and is connected by
ferry as well as by plane.

Local Transportation

The simplest way to get around Anguilla is to rent a car.  You will
need to buy an Anguilla drivers license, but this is a formality.
Taxis are also available.  Another possibility is to hitch rides from
local residents, who are eager to provide them and will often stop to
offer rides unsolicited.  Transportation will be provided at specific
times between Mariners and the InterIsland hotel.

Weather

Expect temperatures in the 20's or 30's Celsius, 70's or 80's
Fahrenheit.  There is often a strong wind, with cloudbursts that
quickly blow over.  Dress code for the conference is shorts and
T-shirt.

Money

The local currency is the Eastern Caribbean dollar (EC$), with an
exchange rate of approximately EC$2.7/US$1, but many goods and
services in Anguilla, particularly those aimed primarily at tourists
(such as restaurants and hotels) are priced in US dollars.  US dollars
are freely tradable everywhere on the island, so there is no need to
obtain EC dollars before arrival.


PROGRAM COMMITTEE

Joan Feigenbaum, AT&T Labs
Yair Frankel, CertCo
Matthew Franklin, Xerox PARC
David Goldschlag, Divx
Markus Jakobsson, Bell Labs
Ari Juels, RSA Labs
Arjen Lenstra, Citibank
Clifford Neuman, Univ. Southern California
Berry Schoenmakers, Digicash
Jacques Stern, ENS
Yacov Yacobi, Microsoft
Bennet Yee, U.C. San Diego

Program Chair:
Matthew Franklin        
email: franklin@parc.xerox.com


ORGANIZING COMMITTEE

General Chair:
Rafael Hirschfeld
email: ray@unipay.nl

Local Arrangements Chair:
Vincent Cate
email: vince@offshore.ai


SPONSORS

FC99 is sponsored by:

nCipher Corporation <http://www.ncipher.com>
e-gold Transnational <http://www.e-gold.com>
Hansa Bank & Trust Company <http://www.hansa.net/>
Offshore Information Services <http://offshore.ai/>

If you are interested in sponsoring FC99, please contact the General
Chair at the email address listed above.

For further information, please see the main FC99 conference web page
at URL http://fc99.ai/.





