From: John Young <jya@pipeline.com>
Date: Tue, 8 Sep 1998 01:48:09 +0800
To: cypherpunks@cyberpass.net
Subject: Re: What we are Fighting
In-Reply-To: <199809071546.LAA21825@camel7.mindspring.com>
Message-ID: <199809071745.NAA09547@camel7.mindspring.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



True that governmental dietary laws are immensely flexible 
when the dogs are hungry.

Given that moral and financial and political betrayal and treachery 
do not qualify for grave natsec threat, and only those acts which 
aim at snatching the very best technology for political control, it's 
the NBC toys that attract most of the serious searchers for terrorists 
under the global bed.

For crypto-in-a-crime that might mean sending here an encrypted
message with an explanatory note that it contains, say:

How to tell the difference between decoys and the real tranporters 
of nuclear components among the national labs and/or to Pantex 
for disassembly.

Or where the recovered Pu and triggers are stored in the TX 
panhandle, helpfully describing what's fake and what's not,
what the security plan is, not disinfo, what tools are needed to 
pick up emanations, how to weed the spoofs.

Or what and where BW or CW armaments are being refreshed,
repaired, deactivated, or invented in top secrecy just in case
some rogue violates a treaty, what tools are needed to sniff 
precursors, how to weed the spoofs, and how to avoid seeded 
soil in your backyard.

Or where key targeters of foreign terrorists live, their childrens' 
school, their favorite places to get away from the terrible
responsibility for USG assassination politics.

Or, could one encrypt a message to oneself claiming to
contain such information, post it here, see who wants
your heart and mind.

Or, create a PK pair, encrypt such a message, then post it,
both keys and PW here. Would the pacesetter be traced?

Would anyone notice, though? Would waiting for the disaster
be better strategy?

Thousands of threats pour in, State says, Secret Service says,
IC says, way too many to fully investigate, until one proves 
blessedly true, ah yes, the likely suspect, then marshal the 
targeters to cruise congress whispering look at this, to OK 
cleansweeping CDR, according to immensely flexible menus
long set.






