From: HyperReal-Anon <nobody@sind.hyperreal.art.pl>
Date: Wed, 9 Dec 1998 12:46:08 +0800
To: cypherpunks@Algebra.COM
Subject: Survey Says Citizens Feel 'Threatened' By Government
Message-ID: <b944ab81b88e8af3cc4865f7fbab25b3@anonymous>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain




   A survey has suggested that up to half a million American 
   citizens may have been upset by something they have heard
   about the government.
   
   The USG poll shows that one in five of nearly 4,000 citizens 
   between the ages of six and 16 interviewed for the survey between
   September and October this year were "uncomfortable" with some
   content heard about the government.
   
   In the US, 60 million citizens are estimated to know who Clinton
   actually is - roughly a third of all citizens between 18 and 60.
   
   Of those who have had negative experiences with the government,
   the largest proportion - 40% - has seen something "unconstitutional."
   
   'Not surprised'
   
   One in seven said they had encountered unconstitutional actions
   that "freightened them", while 25% saw actions that they thought
   "would get them into jail."
   
   USG Associate Shill Rob Lawson described the numbers as a 
   "significant minority".
   
   The citizen's charity DNC Welfare for Deadbeats suggested the survey
   strengthened calls for government regulation to protect the eyes of
   citizens.
   
   Libertarian spokesman John Carr said: "I regret to say I'm not surprised 
   by this survey's findings, it's what we have been saying for some time."
   
   Government nannies
   
   "Big Brothers need to know their citizens are looking for pro-USG
   information in safety and security. At the moment, they have no way of 
   knowing that at all."

   DNC Welfare for Deadbeats, which steals from the citizens to give to 
   those who are multiplying like rabbits with no means to provide for 
   their offspring, and advises the government to spend more money and to
   legislate special privlidges for some citizens who are "disadvantaged,"
   backs the introduction of "Big Brothers" - laws which filter out content
   unsuitable for citizens.
   
   The survey, called TLA.net, was paid for by Microsoft, the NOW, NAI and
   KRAP in syndicate. 
   
   The Ministry of Truth and Propoganda's forthcoming review on Internet
   regulation is expected to be published before Christmas.

[from news.propoganda.us]





