From: netcenter-news@netscape.com
Date: Tue, 14 Apr 1998 00:02:00 -0700 (PDT)
To: <cypherpunks@toad.com>
Subject: Netcenter News - April Special Edition
Message-ID: <199804140701.AAA09972@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


  
 

Title: Netscape Netcenter News - New Service Announcement


















































WE
NEED
YOUR
MIND


Professional Connections is a new Netcenter online community that allows professionals and industry insiders to come together to discuss trends in online business, debate issues in digital culture, and mix and network with one another. 

Coupled with Member Directory, your Netcenter membership is your ticket to network directly with the best minds of the interactive world. Sign up now, and join us in Professional Connections.


























GET
CONNECTED
WITH 
NETCENTER
MEMBER
DIRECTORY 





Trying to find a business colleague's email address? Looking for a way to share your home page URL with your friends?  Look no further than Netcenter's new Member Directory. An online directory of Netcenter members, Member Directory lets you 

Search for colleagues and friends
Network with other Netcenter members

You can also use Member Directory to learn more about the participants in Netcenter Professional Connections discussion forums. Or, post your home page URL or online résumé for potential employers to see. With Member Directory, you can build your own World Wide Network. 

To access Member Directory, simply fill out a member profile. You can edit your profile at any time.  And 
you control what information is made available for other members to see. 

Coming Soon - Shortly you will be able to search for other members based on occupation or interest areas.  So, whether you're looking for career leads or for other entrepreneurs with whom to discuss small-business issues, take advantage of  Member Directory today.




Netscape respects your online time and Internet privacy. If you would prefer not to receive future issues, click here to to send an unsubscribe email or reply to this message with the word unsubscribe in the subject line.




Copyright (c) 1998. Netscape Communications Corporation. All rights reserved.

























