From: GreatStuff@da.net
Date: Sun, 5 Apr 1998 23:43:36 -0700 (PDT)
To: WebFriend@toad.com
Subject: Thanks a lot!!
Message-ID: <199804060643.XAA20899@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Hello and Welcome to Freeyellow Web Pages !
You are about to discover one of the biggest 
opportunities on the Net today ! 

Currently Freeyellow has given out over
170,000 free web pages to people just like you. 

Within the next two years that number is expected to 
grow to more than 5 million people !!

People that realize this opportunity today will be 
rewarded very generously in the future ! 

How hard is it really, to give out Free Web Sites ??

Free for a Lifetime ??

that includes.....

Free Hosting 
Free Lifetime Email address
Free Email on demand
Free Web Page counters
Free Classifieds
Free Online Chat Rooms
Free access to Online Graphics
Free File Uploading
Free personalized search engine
and so much more !

We'll so far I would have to say "extremely easy!"

Do you want to be a part of this growth ?

My upline and I have given out more than 25,000 of the 170,000 
free sites currently given away by Freeyellow.

If you are looking for a way to grow your income
then join a very powerful team to help promote Freeyellow.

First you must start by getting your own Free Web Site
to do this go to my site and click on the Freeyellow Banner: 

http://www.freeyellow.com/members3/1freewebsite

Then you can set-up your own Web Site in minutes using a
template. If you how to use HTML or you can create
your own custom page using HTML. (great for beginners or pros)

Next once you have your Web Site set-up 
you'll learn how to become a Sponsor of Freeyellow.

When you join Freeyellow, they will automatically place an
Advertisement Banner on your main Web Page !

Then people that you direct to your site click on the Banner Ad
and sign up under you.

Now the exciting part !!

When people decide to promote Freeyellow under you, you will
not only receive a commission from them but a link to your URL
will be placed at the bottom of their Web Page and so-on to six
levels deep ! This will generate "enormous additional hits"
to your own Web Page !


If this is of interest please let me know we are looking for 
strong leaders in Internet Marketing. Hurry the growth curb is
already starting and we are in the mid pioneering stage...

..make your own history! Here's an opportunity to forge your
own "SUCCESS" story... 

..CHECK IT OUT "NOW!"

	http://www.freeyellow.com/members3/1freewebsite
  







