From: bill payne <billp@nmol.com>
Date: Sun, 10 May 1998 15:26:06 -0700 (PDT)
To: kalliste@aci.net>
Subject: What Does Crash Mean? and Motion to Amend Order
Message-ID: <35562898.2B92@nmol.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Sunday 5/10/98 3:49 PM

J Orlin Grabbe
John Young

Orlin, u 5/10/98 Albuquerque Journal

  What Does 'Crash' Mean?  Hang Around

  William Pfaff
  Syndicated Columnist

  PARIS -  A friend said to me the other day that the word  "crash"
  no longer is part of the American vocabulary.  We only know stock 
  market "correction," and corrections have just be waited out.
    He explained to me that the stock market only goes up, because 
  immense popular and political interests, as well as corporate
interests
  are today committed to its only going up.  His implied argument was
that the 
  American government has no choice but to make it go up.
    It struck me, as he was peaking, that this might have been what Jay
Gatsby
  was saying to his friends during the luxurious summer of 1929, a few
months
  before Gatsby disappeared off the end of that dock in West Egg, on
Long
  Island Sound, or went back to the Middle West - if it was the Middle
West -
  which, for Gatsby, would have been worse.   But I am a child of the
Depression. ...

Pfaff concludes

    I would stick with an older American assumption, that if something
seems too
  good to be true, it probably is.

Accompanying picture by NANCY OHANIAN/ LOS ANGLES TIMES SYNDICATE
has a bull pictured precariously perched atop a pinnacle ... with rocks
falling around its
feet.

John  I just saw  
  
  Payne-Morales v. NSA: Motion to Amend Order  May 9, 1998

and

  Froomkin on Payne-Morales Motion to Amend Order  May 9, 1998 at

http://www.jya.com/crypto.htm

But I will not read them until Monday.

Let's all hope someone sees the importance of posting the requested
documents on Internet.

Then settling this unfortunate mess.

Later
bill






