From: Jim Choate <ravage@ssz.com>
Date: Sat, 24 Jan 1998 02:00:07 +0800
To: cypherpunks@ssz.com (Cypherpunks Distributed Remailer)
Subject: sleep writing? (fwd)
Message-ID: <199801231751.LAA14854@einstein.ssz.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text



Hi David,

Forwarded message:

> >Consequently, a contradiction emerges between the universality of intellectual labor (the search for
> >universal truth and the good of all) and the particularity of the interests served. The intellectual

> middle rival?  devil rim lad?  This is too weird.

I believe the entire problem rests in that concept 'universal truth', again
a veiled reference to a theism of some sort or another, a fundamental
transcendance.

> That reminds me.  When I was in Austin, I did notice that they had quite an incredible amount of
> public access TV.

We spend quite a bit of money on it that is for shure. I believe we have
like 5 or 6 channels currently. I worked on a program for access television
a few years ago doing post production, video processing, and audio
sweetening. It was a soap opera that we filmed in a local retirement home
and even won an award at some contest in England. It was called 'Silver
Time'. The cool thing is that anyone can go down and by taking a couple of
4 hour classes put their own show on. Because I know the person who does
their technical support via contract through one of my customers (CVS)
they'll let me go in and play around for free. They have some quite
professional equipment, Raptors and several non-linear editing decks as
well as a bunch of Amiga Video Toasters and such. That experience is one of
the reasons I ended getting my own Toaster. The hard drive of which failed
and I have spend the last few evenings, between answering your traffic,
rebuilding. It finaly came back online yesterday and I think I've just about
got it all rebuilt software wise.

One of the local Austin Cypherpunks works on a variety of shows down there
and occassionaly puts on his own video game review production. We had hoped
to do a 30 minute 'state of crypto today' show but we never could get the
momentum going.

                                                    Jim





