From: "Jean-Francois Avon" <jf_avon@citenet.net>
Date: Wed, 16 Sep 1998 11:18:51 +0800
To: "cdn-firearms-digest@broadway.sfn.saskatoon.sk.ca>
Subject: Political purges and Bill C-68
Message-ID: <199809161614.MAA06660@cti06.citenet.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Hi to all of you.  I know most of you personnally, except for the posts to 
mailing lists and public organisms.

------------------ beginning of letter ---------------
Yesterday night, around 2am, I was unable to sleep and surfing the TV 
channels up until I fell on a movie on the ShowCase channel.  This channel 
is devoted to repertoire cinema and less mainstream movies.

As I flick to this channel, I see something I can't take my eyes off for 
it's overwhelming revolting topic:  a bunch of corpses are on a dolly, each 
of one being tied by the feet to a crane cable and quickly, efficiently 
taken away to a big heap of corpses.

Then, a lineup of peoples, waiting in line to pass before some officer.  
They are promplty urged to take off their clothes, aligned to face a wall 
and shot in the back of the head.  And this continues like an dis-assembly 
chain.  

I did not bear more than a few minutes of the thing.  During thoses few 
minutes, maybe five or six rows of five peoples were slaughtered.  Peoples 
of all walk of life, of all ages, young and olds, male and females, 
beautiful and ugly, strugling or resigned were executed by an indifferent 
row of unintelligent and/or psychotic thugs that simply "executed orders".  
There was the firing squad captain that did not shoot but that gave the 
firing orders, so that the thugs could sleep without remorse.  There was 
their superior supervising the whole slaughterhouse operation and finally, 
there was the political supervisor, dressed in the "de rigueur" grey with 
grey hat.  This operation was clearly in the context of some political 
purge.

I did not comprehend the full details of the context, but it appeared that 
it was happening during the russian revolution, or more possibly in East 
Germany after WW-II.

The executed peoples were helpless, at the mercy of thoses thugs because 
they had no way to respond to death threat by death threat.  Most of them 
had accepted their fate and walked to their death attempting to defend 
themselves with calm reason, useless in this context since the firing squad 
was composed of idiots and psychotics.  One girls pleaded for her life and 
her great beauty made the animals of the firing squad hesitate, but was 
promptly shot in the head from a distance by the political supervisor.

And it dawned on me that it could never had happened in a society where gun 
ownership was unregulated, and it also dawned on me that it is the essence 
of the natural outcome of all gun regulation/registration schemes.  That to 
provide that kind of power  to the ruling political class is the ultimate 
goal of gun registration and regulation, notwithstanding that they chose to 
exert it or not.

Very soon (in principle on october 1st 1998), under the new bill C-68 , you 
will be declared a criminal in the full sense of the law, just as if you had 
killed somebody, if you don't register your guns (or don't plan to do so 
before the limit date comes up in a few years).

Putting aside for a moment the tremendous costs associated with that C-68 
nonsense (around 2 billions $ wasted money) we must realize that private 
law-abiding firearm owners account for 0.08% of all homicides commited with 
a firearms.

So, I ask because I consider it of extreme importance, what's the ULTIMATE 
purpose of declaring criminal seven millions of individuals who wants 
nothing more than lead peacefull lifes?
----------- end of letter --------------

Jean-Francois Avon, Montreal, Canada

Hitler, Stalin, Pinochet, PolPot and every other notorious psychotic 
butchers insisted on a tight control of privately owned firearms.  I wonder 
why?

"nobody runs faster than a bullet"   - supposedly from Idi Amin Dada

Jean-Francois Avon, B.Sc. Physics, Montreal, Canada
  DePompadour, Société d'Importation Ltée
     Limoges fine porcelain and french crystal
  JFA Technologies, R&D physicists & engineers
     Instrumentation & control, LabView programming
PGP keys: http://bs.mit.edu:8001/pks-toplev.html
PGP ID:C58ADD0D:529645E8205A8A5E F87CC86FAEFEF891 
PGP ID:5B51964D:152ACCBCD4A481B0 254011193237822C





