From: Eric Cordian <emc@wire.insync.net>
Date: Tue, 3 Feb 1998 02:04:21 +0800
To: cypherpunks@cyberpass.net
Subject: Re: Bush Gang Suspected In Assault On Presidency
In-Reply-To: <3.0.5.32.19980202074638.00875dd0@popd.ix.netcom.com>
Message-ID: <199802021755.LAA17199@wire.insync.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Bill Stewart writes:

> EIR is one of the mouthpieces for the Lyndon Larouche cult.

We know what EIR is.  While I wouldn't vote Larouche for President, he is
a very bright economist, and the attacks by the Feds on organizations
supporting him clearly demonstrate the lengths the government will go to
silence its critics in our alleged democracy.  I stopped getting "Fusion" 
magazine, to which I was subscribed, when the government seized it.

> I ran across them in an airport recently, and was surprised to find
> they're now strongly behind Bill Clinton; I'd thought that a few years
> ago they were accusing him of being a tool of the Tri-Lateral
> Commission, though perhaps it was some other group of
> anti-TriLateralists. 

Willie ClitorisBum was groomed for a long time for his present position,
by TriLateraloids, and others.  That is not mutually exclusive with the
notion that the conservatives have assisted in the creation of his current
problems. 

Bush is well integrated into America's Secret Aristocracy, and has been a
member of various associated oganizations since his college days.

Interestingly enough, Reagan left Larouche alone when he was questioning
the mental health of Dukakis, but when Larouche became critical of
Reagan's foreign policy, it was quickly arranged for conservative asset
William Weld to take him out with multiple grand juries in dispersed
geographical locations, over small unrepaid campaign loans.

With all the laws the government has, everyone is guilty of something. 

-- 
Eric Michael Cordian 0+
O:.T:.O:. Mathematical Munitions Division
"Do What Thou Wilt Shall Be The Whole Of The Law"





