From: bill payne <billp@nmol.com>
Date: Tue, 4 Aug 1998 14:48:40 -0700 (PDT)
To: gbroiles@netbox.com
Subject: Great Fascist Satan's ploys
Message-ID: <35C7808A.39AB@nmol.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain

Tuesday 8/4/98 3:11 PM

J Orlin Grabbe
John Young

Morales and I met for lunch.

We formulated a plan of attack on the NEXT TARGET.

ABQ J Monday 8/13/98

  Fess Up, Clinton Friends, Foes Say

  Key Republican Says Lenience Is an Option

  By Robert L. Jackson
  Los Angeles Times

  WASHINGTON -

  [C]hairman Orrin Hatch of Utah said he believes Clinton could retract
  his denials of intimacy with Lewinsky and still survive in office,
provided
  there is no evidence of larger transgressions such as perjury or
obstruction
  of justice.
    "If he comes forth and tells it and does it in the right way and
there aren't
  a lot of other factors to cause the Congress to say this man is unfit
for the
  presidency and should be impeached, then I think the president would
have a 
  reasonable chance of getting through this," Hatch said of NBC's "Meet
the
  Press." ...

One of the Great Fascist Satan's ploys is to give a person bad advice
...
and hope they take it.  Bubba, we all guess, knows this TOO.

Morales and I figured out how to approach Hatch. 

The last attempt did not work.  http://www.jya.com/whp071598.htm

The statement

  No less can they forget how the west backed Saddam Hussein's 1980
invasion of Iran.

in Clinton Longs to "Make Iran His China" seen at
http://www.aci.net/kalliste/

appears a bit understated in view of
http://www.aci.net/kalliste/speccoll.htm
and http://caq.com/cryptogate.

I got a letter from US Attorney Mitchell today.  But I haven't opened
it.

Yesterday on the phone Mitchell I sensed that Mitchell had changed.  

Mitchell sounded sympathetic to what Morales' and I are doing.  

But she is a LAWYER so we are NOT counting on anything.

Let's all hope for settlement of the UNFORTUNATE matter before it gets
WORSE.

Later
bill


Monday 8/3/98 3:41 PM

FAX

Jan Elizabeth Mitchell
Assistant U.S. Attorney
U.S. Department of Justice
United States Attorney
District of New Mexico
Post Office Box 607
Albuquerque, NM 87103
505/346-7274
505/766-2868
FAX 505/346-7205

Dear Ms Mitchell:

Purpose of the fax is to 

1  review points covered in our 8/3/98 14:18 phone conversation
2  suggest settlement.

You phoned me today.

You told me that you planned to file a motion or response to the Tenth circuit's
request Morales and my response to the jurisdictional issue on the 21st of August.

I told you that this was premature on your part since we had moved for a second time
for an extension of time.

I told you also that this matter was now before congress.

You appeared to indicate to me that you were in the process of adding both Morales and
Minihan as named parties in this appeal.

You asked me if it would be agreeable to us if you filed a response to the Tenth circuit
21 days AFTER Morales and I filed our response to the Tenth circuit on the jurisdictional
issue.

I AGREED.

I spoke to Morales on the phone shortly after our phone conversation.

Arguing points of law before court clerks and judges who have outstanding criminal complaint
affidavits for crimes COMMITTED IN WRITING againtst them would be unproductive on Morales and my 
part.

Therefore, we will proceed to resolve the criminal conduct on the part of judges and court clerks
before we proceed further in this matter.

We will do this at the Congressional level.

Senate Judiciary Committe chairman Orrin Hatch, unfortunately, failed to properly process a valid
complaint on New Mexico district court chief judge John Conway in 1995.  
http://www.jya.com/whp071598.htm

Hatch's failure to properly respond in 1995, in large part, caused our current legal conflict with DIR NSA 
Minihan.

We foresee an unfortunate escalation of hostilities if this matter proceeds as it is.  

We do not wish this.

We seek settlement of the UNFORTUNATE matter at the earliest time.

We ask your and Congressional help to settle this UNFORTUNATE matter before it gets WORSE.

If I have made any essential material errors in reporting my impression of the contents of our conversation, 
then I would appreciate you giving your impression of possible errors.  

You can do this in the letter you said you would write to us.

Sincerely,


bill payne
13015 Calle de Sandias NE          	        
Albuquerque, NM 87111              	        

Distribution

Senate Judiciary Committee   e-mail
Arthur R Morales e-mail			





