From: John Young <jya@pipeline.com>
Date: Mon, 16 Nov 1998 01:43:33 +0800
To: cypherpunks@cyberpass.net
Subject: Non Explosive Weapons
Message-ID: <199811151724.MAA21167@smtp0.atl.mindspring.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Richard Danzig, new Navy Secretary, op-eds in the
NYT today about the threat of "Non Explosive Weapons 
(NEW)," posed by WMD and information warfare.

    http://jya.com/mil-panic.htm

He terms them "weapons of mass disruption" which
may lead to mass panic and will require the military and
law enforcement agencies to unite in a new kind of
US national defense, while, you bet, at the same time 
obeying law against domestic military operations.

In passing, he notes that the military has encryption
to protect itself against information attacks but that the
public and infrastructure does not. Cavalry to the
rescue.

Danzig's message is remarkably similar to the Kyl report
noted here a few days ago, and may indicate what's
long been coming in the way of deploying military
forces while falsely proclaiming Posse Comitatus
is being fulfilled. Or that the law is about to be
changed to meet the urgent threats of the Info Age,
media-decorted, to be sure, like WMD Freddy
or our own media-terrifying Toto.

Bruce Hoffman's recently published "Inside Terrorism," lays 
out the full panoply of outlaw and lawful terrorism, by groups 
and nations, cults and religions. Like the "Thugs" of India who 
killed 1 million over 1200 years -- an impressive persistence.

Hoffman claims that terrorism works in most cases. The reasons
why have been discussed here, though not his depth and
range of successes. And that the military seldom knows what
to do about it except to engage in even greater terrorism itself,
particularly against perceived supporters of the enemy.

That's food for thought for those calling for military protection
at home, whether by the military or the increasingly militarized
and armed LEAs and support agencies.

This linkage of WMD terrrorism and information threats 
appears to be the policy strategy to demonize information
in order to criminalize it. "Information threats" under this 
policy does not mean anything protected by the 1A or
WTO copyright, see how it works, is that clear motherfucker, 
do you need a missile in the head to get the point you fucking 
terrorist, read the NEWs, this aint TV Cops, Joe 6-Pack, it's 
high-tech GI Joe sapping your bunker, night-vision video 
rolling, family suicide by Semtex.







