From: Declan McCullagh <declan@well.com>
Date: Fri, 11 Sep 1998 11:57:17 +0800
To: Anonymous <nobody@replay.com>
Subject: Re: Clinton's fake apologies
In-Reply-To: <199809111600.SAA12943@replay.com>
Message-ID: <Pine.GSO.3.95.980911095344.7166D-100000@well.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain





On Fri, 11 Sep 1998, Anonymous wrote:

> The annoying thing about Clinton's recent behavior is that he never
> comes right out and apologizes, but the press always says he does.
> 
> Case in point:
> 
> > WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Saying ``I have sinned,'' a tearful President
> > Clinton made an impassioned plea Friday for forgiveness from Monica
> > Lewinsky and others and vowed to fight hard to keep his job.

Reuters' lede seems right:


	First, I want to say to all of you that, as you might imagine, I
have been on quite a journey these last few weeks to get to the end
of this, to the rock bottom truth of where I am and where we all are.
I agree with those who have said that in my first statement after I
testified I was not contrite enough.  I don't think there is a fancy
way to say that I have sinned.
	It is important to me that everybody who has been hurt know that
the sorrow I feel is genuine: first and most important, my family;
also my friends, my staff, my Cabinet, Monica Lewinsky and her
family, and the American people.  I have asked all for their
forgiveness.
	But I believe that to be forgiven, more than sorrow is required
-- at least two more things.  First, genuine repentance -- a
determination to change and to repair breaches of my own making.  I
have repented.  Second, what my bible calls a "broken spirit"; an
understanding that I must have God's help to be the person that I
want to be; a willingness to give the very forgiveness I seek; a
renunciation of the pride and the anger which cloud judgment, lead
people to excuse and compare and to blame and complain.
	Now, what does all this mean for me and for us?  First, I will
instruct my lawyers to mount a vigorous defense, using all available
appropriate arguments.  But legal language must not obscure the fact
that I have done wrong.  Second, I will continue on the path of
repentance, seeking pastoral support and that of other caring people
so that they can hold me accountable for my own commitment.
	Third, I will intensify my efforts to lead our country and the
world toward peace and freedom, prosperity and harmony, in the hope
that with a broken spirit and a still strong heart I can be used for
greater good, for we have many blessings and many challenges and so
much work to do.
	In this, I ask for your prayers and for your help in healing our
nation.  And though I cannot move beyond or forget this -- indeed, I
must always keep it as a caution light in my life -- it is very
important that our nation move forward.




