From: egnarr@rbc.edu
Date: Mon, 23 Nov 1998 01:55:52 +0800
To: <cypherpunks@cyberpass.net>
Subject: Looking for that Perfect Christmas Gift?
Message-ID: <199811221718.JAA26196@cyberpass.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Merry Christmas & Happy Holidays From the Staff at 
Mall-Cartay.com

We here at MALL CARTAY  have strived to bring to you the best 
collection of unique gift expressions. We hope that you take a 
few moments to browse through our catalogs, we are sure you will 
find that special gift you've been looking for. Just copy & paste 
this address into your browser window:
http://www.mall-cartay.com

Our catalogs have been optimized for ease of use and quick 
download to your browser window.

YOU SHOULD LOOK NOW BECAUSE THESE INCREDIBLE GIFTS WILL SELL OUT 
SOON. ALL ORDERS ARE ON A FIRST COME FIRST SOLD BASIS

Come inside & see why Mall-CARTAY is becoming the Internet's 
Premier Shopping Mecca. Scroll down through this amazing 
collection of beautiful soft teddy bears from the Bearington 
Collection or dream over Granlund's Sweet Temptations
(Chocolates & Truffles) & Marry Madeline's chocolate mud pies.  
These items are a sure bet for those of us with a perpetual sweet 
tooth.

Our unique Christmas Wreath Line are hand crafted from the 
highest quality noble fir from the great pacific northwest.  The 
high elevation blue noble fir tree is the longest lasting and 
most fragrant of all the conifers and are what only the highest 
quality wreaths are made from.

All ordered items have a guaranteed delivery date via direct 
shipment to your door no later than December 15, 1998.

We would like to thank you in advance for looking through the 
fine Christmas Collections that Mall-CARTAY.Com has assembled for 
you this Holiday Season.

We are sure you will find our experience and dedication to 
quality product and service a most favorable experience.  We are 
looking forward to being your first stop when looking for that 
special gift on any occasion.

Again thank you and have a joyous and happy holiday season.

The staff at Mall-Cartay.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




