From: Soren <sorens@workmail.com>
Date: Tue, 10 Nov 1998 22:03:03 +0800
To: cyphers <cypherpunks@cyberpass.net>
Subject: Re: dbts: Privacy Fetishes, Perfect Competition, and the  Foregone(fwd)
In-Reply-To: <5F152E6E8E6FD21195DF00104B2425AD02B276@yarrowbay.chaffeyhomes.com>
Message-ID: <36484ED1.6F3B9F1E@workmail.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/html




Albert P. Franco, II wrote:
I've been lurking on this thread for a while, and
I am amazed by the level
of utopist muck that is being spewed here by you.
Without some government the Bad Guys will be the only ones with anything.
It is only with the threat of losing their power that leaders do good.
If
they had no power which could be lost or taken they will always do
what's
best for them in the short term, which is usually to shit on the peons.
Dictators (like Pinochet and Gates) do their dirty deeds because they
feel
no need to placate the masses.
And the Bad Guys don't have everything already? Are they in any danger
of losing their power?
 
This anarcho-capitalist spew is so much crap that the bullshit indicators
are blaring at top volume. If the people can't control a constitutional
government, known for having peacefully free elections for over two
hundred
years, then how the hell do think you can convince somebody that the
people
are going to be able to control warlords and monopolies. It's called,
"You
don't like it? Bang, Bang, you're dead!"
And this differs from living in in a 1st world state, how?
Try to lift yourself out of the bullshit of your
theory and give us at
least one REAL example (current or historic) of a large scale, long
lasting
anarcho-capitalist society. Hippie communes are too small, and make
sure
it's capitalistic. If you can't think of one in the next year or so
then
come back and tell us.
Is there some specific reason they need to be large scale or long lasting? 
By definition, anarcho-capitalism is constantly changing -- perhaps as
much as between extreme individualism, to the current state of feudalism
that has pervaded the world since the birth of agrarianism.
I agree with you that most utopianist ranting here carries a strong
whiff of frustration and steam venting.  To those anarcho-capitalists,
I recommend the course of action I took 25 years ago.  If you don't
like the state you live in, don't patronize it.  There are many save
harbors in the world that better approach your ideals, and are more amenable
to change, than the Union of Socialist Americans.
"Educate, don't agitate".
 



