From: John Young <jya@pipeline.com>
Date: Wed, 8 Jul 1998 17:37:02 -0700 (PDT)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: DoD Plans Global Domestic Invasion
Message-ID: <199807090036.UAA06849@dewdrop2.mindspring.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


DoD released today the text of a June 11 speech which
describes how the military is planning for the first time
in US history to establish a homeland defense command,
to operate inside US borders for protection against terrorism
and weapons of mass destruction:

   http://jya.com/dsd061198.htm

A special unit will handle cyber threats.

The CINC-US will be a vast increase over the traditional
role of domestic law enforcement by FBI, ATF and other
federal, state and local authorities, lately supplemented
by the National Guard, FEMA, PCCIP, and the newly
formed COIA at Commerce and the President's special 
office on domestic terrorism.

Deputy Secretary of Defense Hamre said the command
will work with the newly formed Defense Threat Reduction
Agency (DTRA) which will be under C4I of DoD.

Another press release today covered Hamre's June 22 
speech in Vienna where he outlined similar measures for 
European defense through NATO:

   http://jyacom/dsd062298.htm

Finally, the Wash Post had a report today on DoD's
attempt to come up with workable plans for offensive
cyberwar -- which is claimed to be the serious first 
serious competitor for the nuclear threat in fifty years:

   http://jya.com/cyber-how.htm

It says that a component of cyberwar offense is regular prowling
of other countries networks and military command systems 
for the purpose of "pre-planning the battlefield."

That this is the way DoD justifies ignoring the limitations of 
intel agencies' need to get presidential approval for invading 
the borders of other countries. "Cyberspace is borderless," 
says the Pentagon.

Many covert prowling, surveilling and crashing tools
are in operation or poised to take down systems like those
of the nuclear command and control systems of 
Pakistan and India should the need arise. One guy
brags that any one of a dozen experts in the US 
"could take out a country in six hours" by disrupting
cyber infrastructure, and that might be looming for
the US.

Is it true infowar, or is it whistling in the dark psy war:
"my megaherz-death bombers are sneakier than yours"?

So, it appears that key stroke logging and MS/Intel's vicious 
"wired for management" are kidstuff cheapskate knockoffs of
far worse invasive technology pouring dollars into Wintel
labs and fabs.







