From: "http://www.musicblvd.com/" <manager@musicblvd.com>
Date: Fri, 16 Jan 1998 01:02:28 -0800 (PST)
To: musicblvd@sparklist.com
Subject: Music Boulevard Storewide Sale
Message-ID: <3.0.32.19980115122621.007dbd10@mail.sparknet.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Dear Music Boulevard Customer,
 
Happy New Year from Music Boulevard!  Ring in 1998 on the right note,
with new music!  Through January 26th we've lowered prices on every CD,
cassette, video and T-shirt in our catalog of over 200,000 items --
our entire store is on sale!  Search for your most-wanted recordings or
refer to our comprehensive Buyer's Guide (created by Music Boulevard's 
staff of music experts) to find essential albums in every musical genre 
and style, from Surf and Garage Rock to New Orleans Jazz to Reggae to 
20th Century Classical music.  Follow the link below to go to our Buyer's 
Guide...

http://www.musicblvd.com/cgi-bin/tw/1462_0_/mb2/live/mrkt/specials.txt
 

$1 U.S. SHIPPING!
Extra, Extra! Due to enthusiastic customer response, we've extended
our shipping sale! Through the end of January, the shipping charge 
for U.S. orders is just $1 for unlimited items. With our unbeatable 
prices and shipping rates, expanding your music collection in '98 is 
one New Year's resolution you just can't break!
 
EARN FREE CDS!
How many CDs did you buy in '97? Our Frequent Buyer's Club members
earn store credit for a free CD after each tenth item purchased on 
Music Boulevard.  If you haven't already joined the club, don't delay 
- starting earning points towards your first free CD today! 
  
THE VOTES ARE IN...
And the winner is...Music Boulevard! We've been named the official
online store for the 40TH ANNUAL GRAMMY AWARDS!  For the best recordings 
and performances of 1997, look no further than our comprehensive "Guide 
to the Grammy Nominees", including nominees in over 90 categories, audio
clips, cover art, and much more.  All nominated albums -- from outstanding
artists Paula Cole, Babyface, Hanson, and many other top artists -- will 
be sale-priced through the Grammy Awards Ceremony on February 25th.
After the 25th, revisit the Guide for a complete list of the winners and 
special savings on the best of the best! Just follow the URL below...

http://www.musicblvd.com/cgi-bin/tw/1462_0_/mb2/live/mrkt/grammyguide/genera
l.txt


NEW AND NOTEWORTHY
Music Boulevard keeps you informed of the latest and greatest new
music! The stellar soundtrack to 'Great Expectations' is highlighted by 
brand new songs from Tori Amos, Chris Cornell of Soundgarden, and Scott 
Weiland.  Just released -- Ben Folds Five's 'Naked Baby Photos,' a 
collection of 17 of the quirky pop group's best rare, live, and unreleased 
songs.  And at the top of the music charts, the soundtrack to the epic 
romance 'Titanic' features the music of legendary film soundtrack composer 
James Horner as well as the Celine Dion's beautiful performance of the love 
theme "My Heart Will Go On." 
 
GET THEM BEFORE THEY'RE HOT!
Visit Music Boulevard today to pre-order tomorrow's biggest hits! On
January 27th, keyboard virtuoso John Tesh unveils his latest
full-length album of lush, soothing New Age compositions.  Also on 
the 27th, the master of English Jungle techno, Goldie, returns with his 
long-awaited second album, the double-CD 'Saturnzreturn.'  On February 3rd,
Seattle supergroup Pearl Jam makes a comeback with their fifth and finest 
studio album yet, 'Yield,' featuring the hit single "Given To Fly."  Advance 
order these much-awaited new albums today and have them delivered to your 
doorstep on release date!
 
Thanks for shopping Music Boulevard!
 
The Music Boulevard Staff
 
TO UNSUBSCRIBE
To unsubscribe from this mailing list, send an Email to:
remove-musicblvd@sparklist.com
and you will be automatically removed from this list.





