From: John Young <jya@pipeline.com>
Date: Tue, 23 Jun 1998 05:49:03 -0700 (PDT)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Jim Bell Rearrested
Message-ID: <199806231248.IAA16982@camel8.mindspring.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


JY note: The message below has not been authenticated. The writer claimed
no knowledge of the arrest at the time I spoke with him, which was 
after the date and time of the arrest given in the message. It's
possible he was withholding the information for publication or by
request of confidentiality. The message may be a forgery written
after seeing the messages at http://jya.com/jdb062198.htm. The IRS
has sent spam concerning Jim Bell before: http://jya.com/irs-spam.htm.

From: Anonymous 3
Date: Mon, 22 Jun 1998 23:31:33 EDT
To: jya@pipeline.com
Subject: Jim Bell and anon

John: 

This is [a journalist] whom you called today about Bell. He was
arrested at his parents' home in Vancouver Monday about 1:07 a.m. PDT by five
federal marshals in two cars. The agents went in with guns drawn and came out
with Bell's elderly parents, with whom they talked for a while. A few minutes
later, they brought out Jim, who was handcuffed in front, dressed in a blue T-
shirt and slacks. He was put in the back of a red Jeep, and then leg chained
by an agent. (I tried to ask one of the agents if Jim was going to be taken
directly to Tacoma - my assumption - but the agent was a typical marshals
service jerk and just told me to stay away.)

Jim was in the backseat for about 20 minutes and then two agents came out and
drove him away - after one agent accidentally set off the Jeep "wa-wa" siren -
...just as TV arrived. the other three agents remained in the house, looking
for "evidence," i assume.

I expect him to appear before a federal magistrate in Tacoma tomorrow
morning. His federal defender still has not been provided any paper by the
govt.

so, now yr up to date.

on another matter, I was curious abt the anonymous info sent you. i've been
trying to get an anon remailer for some time, but have been unsuccessful. got
any tips, advice or help?			







