From: David Honig <honig@otc.net>
Date: Wed, 11 Mar 1998 10:08:52 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: emailed prez. death threat conviction
Message-ID: <3.0.5.32.19980311100833.007b1e20@otc.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


http://biz.yahoo.com/upi/98/03/11/general_news/usclinton_2.html
Wednesday March 11 5:39 AM EST 

Teen convicted of Clinton e-mail threats

MIDLAND, Mich., March 11 (UPI) _ A 17-year-old high school honors student
faces jail after being convicted of
sending e-mail death threats to President Clinton. 

Heidi Sullivan of Midland, Mich., was sentenced Tuesday to eight days in
jail and two years probation for sending
threats to the White House in January from a computer at Midland High School. 

Midland County Probation Officer Tom Adams says Sullivan could have
received 20 years for threatening the
president, but probably got the reduced sentence because of her family's
history.  [...]


.....................

In other news

			President Might Go Under Knife

                     WASHINGTON (AP) -- Sorry, Bill, it's for your own good.

                     After consulting with his proctologist -- and hearing
an appeal in favor of neutering from
                     actress Doris Day -- First Lady Hillary Clinton has
decided on the procedure for the President.

                     But the reluctant First Lady reserved the right to
change her mind. In announcing
                     Hillary's decision Tuesday, White House spokesman
Barry Toiv said Mrs. Clinton
                     was ``inclined'' to allow the procedure.

                     The National Organization of Women, the nation's
largest women's rights
                     group, applauded the First Lady's decision, saying she
was doing the right thing.

                     ``Neutering or spaying politicians is one of the most
important acts a
                     responsible society can take,'' said Martha Armstrong,
a society vice
                     president. ``It promotes better physical and
behavioral health,
                     and it helps to address the ubiquitous sexual
misconduct crises.''

                     Hillary set no immediate date for putting her husband
under the knife, leaving some to
                     wonder whether the 50 year old former Arkansas
governor has been told of
                     his fate.

                     ``Bill's a little too young to understand,'' Toiv said.

                     Indeed, the President seemed blissfully unaware of any
pending surgery as he played
                     fetch with Buddy, the first dog, on the South Lawn
with a green tennis ball Tuesday.

                     White House press secretary Mike McCurry said today
the procedure was ``not
                     likely anytime soon given the dispositions and pending
indictments.''

                     Toiv said Mrs. Clinton's decision was driven by
concerns for her husband's health. She
                     denied that it was motivated by the encounters Bill
has had with Socks the
                     family cat and various White House staff and interns.

                     Dr. Jacqueline Suarez, a proctologist with the
Alexandria (Va.) Army Hospital,
                     said neutering can help curb politicians' aggression
toward other politicians and tendency
                     to fornicate in unwelcome places.

                     ``Although, if we have people questioning if they
should or shouldn't, those health
                     reasons are good reasons to neuter as well, so we'll
use them as part of the case
                     for neutering,'' Suarez said.

                     Miss Day, president of the Doris Day Humanitarian
League, sent Clinton a letter in
                     December expressing concern that the nation would
suffer if he
                     were left intact. Among them was a risk of impeachment
in addition to 
		     testicular cancer and prostate infections that could lead to
problems with urination.

                     In January, McCurry said there were no plans to neuter
the President, who had moved
                     into the White House in 1993.

                     However, Clinton physician Connie Mariano has now told
Miss Day in a letter
                     that Mrs. Clinton had decided to neuter the president
on the advice of White House advisor
                     James Carville.

                     Armstrong said that politicians need not worry about
losing their procreative abilities.

                     ``Politicians don't have a real concept of identity or
ego.  Its all drive for power.
		      Neutering a politician or justice department official will not
change his basic personality,'' she said. 
		     ``They don't suffer any kind of emotional reaction or identity
crisis when neutered.''

                     Got that, Mr. President?


original at http://www.newsday.com/ap/rnmpwh1z.htm
------------------------------------------------------------
      David Honig                   Orbit Technology
     honig@otc.net                  Intaanetto Jigyoubu

Beat your algorithms into swords and your virtual machines into spears:
let the weak say, I am strong. 








	















