From: TruthMonger <tm@dev.null>
Date: Fri, 20 Mar 1998 12:28:15 -0800 (PST)
To: Yupin Mungdee <snickers@mejl.com>
Subject: Does Spamming Really Exist? / Re: Will New Sendmail Block Remailers?
In-Reply-To: <Pine.SOL.3.96.980319045525.2632A-100000@rigel.cyberpass.net>
Message-ID: <3512E780.5FBD@dev.null>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Yupin Mungdee wrote:
> 
> Another possible "ultimate end" for the spammer wars would be making
> spamming illegal, like fax spamming, and having the cops hunting down the
> spammers. But that can be defeated with truly anonymous markets, still
> assuming that encryption will be legal.

Spamming is an 'imaginary' felony, as are anonymity and encryption.

The only real crime taking place on the InterNet is the marriage of
an underage technology to a polygamous pen full of Sheeple whose
dowry consists of an evolutionary heritage of worshipping whatever
it is that they don't understand and following the Ram(it up your
ass) with the biggest horns and the loudest bleat.

> To really beat spamming we probably need filters that only allow messages
> from inside our web of trust. Don't you agree?

Complaining about 'spamming' is the equivalent of going to a Reservation
and complaining that "there's too damn many Indians" around.

"Doctor, it hurts when I do *this*..."
	"Then don't do *that*!"

I don't post under my own name on USENET for a simple reason. When I do,
I get mountains of spam.
I do subscribe to cypherpunks through an unfilted toad.com and I get a
few niggling spams a day that merely serve to remind me that the
'spammers'
are out there, laying in wait.

I don't live in Los Angelos for a simple reason. Within the first week
of
driving in traffic there, I would take out an Uzi and start blowing the
other drivers away at random.
I do make occassional forays into large cities such as LA and Phoenix
when
I want/need to do business or pleasure there, but when merely passing
through, I do so at 4 a.m., in order to avoid the 'road spam'.

The WorldWide Web is just that...a 'web'. If you want to traverse every
part of it, just 'surfing' without using any kind of judgement or
discrimination, then you can expect to get 'stuck' with whatever kind
of substance is being used by those constructing that particular part
of the web.
When I go into the part of the web that John Perry has thrown his
Net over and marked as his territory, my gut-reaction is to think of
him as a dickhead, Nazi censor. Realistically, this would be true
if he trod over to my few strands of webspace and tried to rule over
it, but my willfully traversing into his domain and whining about
how he acts within it is nothing more than egoism.
Those who choose to participate with John Perry in the construction
and maintenance of the web of trust/competency that he is involved
in have certain expectations of free communications versus limitations
of speech and action. Those who choose to participate in the 
construction/destruction of the CypherPunks lists can expect to be
barraged by all manner of sanity/insanity, and to have to judge the 
value of the list for themselves in deciding whether to stay or to 
leave. (Relying on the CypherPunks Complaint Department to 'solve'
this or that 'problem' is not a viable option.)

"Doctor, I get 'spammed' when I go there..."
	"Then don't go there..."

OldDocMonger





