From: TruthMonger <tm@dev.null>
Date: Thu, 9 Apr 1998 19:56:49 -0700 (PDT)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Dudley DoRightMonger Driven From Home By Armed Thugs?
Message-ID: <352D8AFE.483E@dev.null>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Poor Dudley seems to have been evicted from his spiritual home at
http://www3.sk.sympatico.ca/carljohn/rcmphate/rcmphate.html .

As a matter of fact, the whole http://www3.sk.sympatico.ca/carljohn
website seems to have mysteriously disappeared into thin air, for
no apparent reason.
Since the nice people at Sympatico have never shown any propensity
for fascist oppression of their users, as far as I know, I fear that
perhaps they have fallen victim to the Dangerous Armed Thugs who
have stolen my computer and my cute little nephew's computer.
(Of course, I don't have any firsthand knowledge that the Armed Thugs
 are truly responsible for theft of my nephew's computer, since 
 whoever the thief was who stole it, like most criminals, failed to
 leave any sign of his/her presence except for the obvious violation
 of my privacy. Thus I am assuming that perhaps the devious, criminal
 ordinary citizens who informed me of the intrusion of the Dangerous
 Armed Thugs into my home were not just lying through their teeth,
 as Judges always rule they do when their testimony and broken bones
 are in conflict with the Official Version Of The Truth (TM) told by
 the Dangerous Armed Thugs.)

I certainly hope that the nice Sympatico people weren't threatened by
the Dangerous Armed Thug who robbed me at gunpoint, on behalf of a
drug-dealing car thief and violent armed robber. I fear that this may
be the case, however, since they have never contacted me to express
any concerns about the webpages where I store works I have authored,
and portions of works in progress.

I suppose that the Dangerous Armed Thugs backed up their veiled threats
of violence with outrageously blatant Lies such as those that poured
forth in huge torrents from the Evil Lying Mouths of the Costumes Offals
at the Regway, SK, meatspace border crossing when they stole my laptop
and other possessions without being able to offer any explaination as
to why they were doing so, other than the unspoken and obvious fact
that they are Dangerous Armed Thugs and I am just a Piece Of Shit
Citizen who is expected to fucking well take whatever they choose to
dish out to me, without resistance.

I suppose that the best thing I can do with Dudley DoRightMonger
is to help him to flee to the Soviet Union, where the Armed Thugs
are less dangerous because they are freelancers, and can be bought
by both the government *and* the citizens. (True Free Enterprise!)
Thank Dog that there are still places like Russia, where free 
speech is still possible, and where the creative juices of the
muse can still flow freely, out of the reach of the Violent
Dangerous Armed Thugs in Canada who stand ready and willing to
oppress and murder anyone who looks or acts differently than
themselves.

I guess if I was a Wagon-Burner, I would already be dead...

TruthMonger





