From: Jim Choate <ravage@ssz.com>
Date: Sat, 10 Jan 1998 10:32:42 +0800
To: cypherpunks@ssz.com
Subject: index.html
Message-ID: <199801100253.UAA11537@einstein.ssz.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain




Welcome to the Cypherpunks Distributed Remailer.

The purpose of this mailing list is to explore the frontier of cryptography,
civil liberty, economics, and related issues.

This is a very high traffic mailing list.

Several members of the mailing list are involved in various types of events
through the year. Participation by members of the list does not construe any
support or affilliation with the mailing list. Contact the author of all
works obtained through the remailer network. They retain original rights.

There are currently 4 indipendant but cooperating sites supporting full
cross posting of traffic. The goal is to provide a mechanism for improved
list stability as well as making moderation and other forms of attacks
harder to mount. These sites are:

ssz.com
algebra.com
cyberpass.net
htp.com (Japan)

If you have specific questions about the list or particular remailer host
sites please contact postmaster@domain_name for further information. Should
you be interested in participating as a CDR host then make an announcement
on the list. This will allow all the sites to update their maps. All that is
required to become a member is some form of remailer or forwarding mechanism
and a means to delete multiple copies of the same message. Currently there
are several remailer programs but majordomo is the most popular. In general
a procmail script is used to remove duplicates.

Please let others know about this mailing list, the more the merrier!

To subscribe to the CDR you should contact the individual operators as
conditions at each remailer site may be quite different. To subscribe
through SSZ you should send a note to list@ssz.com or send an email to
majordomo@ssz.com with 'subscribe cypherpunks email_address' in the body.
If you have questions or problems contact list@ssz.com

There may be local groups of members who have regular (or not) meetings
in order to discuss the various issues and projects appropriate to their
individual membership. These groups generaly announce their meetings via the
CDR. Please feel free to make appropriate announcements of activity in your
area.

Some popular books that are well respected for learning about Cryptography
and the various issues are:

Applied Cryptography: Protocols, Algorithms, and Source Code in C
Bruce Schneier
ISBN 0-471-11709-9

Disappearing Cryptography
Peter Wayner
ISBN 0-12-738671-8

Internet Cryptography
Richard E. Smith
ISBN 0-201-92480-3

Decrypted Secrets: Methods and Maxims of Cryptology
F.L. Bauer
ISBN 3-540-60418-9


Some sites that that might be of interest:

Austin Cypherpunks

Soda Cypherpunks - Original site





