From: "Jack Oswald / CEO / RPK Security" <joswald@rpkusa.com>
Date: Thu, 20 Aug 1998 23:18:44 -0700 (PDT)
To: E-mailingList@rpkusa.com
Subject: ANNOUNCEMENT: RPK ENCRYPTONITE SOFTWARE TOOLKIT NOW AVAILABLE IN ACTIVEX
Message-ID: <199808201809.LAA23498@proxy3.ba.best.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


You have received this message because at some time in the past your name was submitted to our e-mail mailing list database.  If you do not wish (or no longer wish) to receive announcements, updates and news concerning the RPK Encryptonite Engine or the RPK InvisiMail e-mail security products, please forward this message to remove@rpkusa.com

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

CONTACT
Paula Miller							Lyn Oswald
Nadel Phelan, Inc.						RPK Security, Inc.
408-439-5570 x277							212-488-9891
paulam@nadelphelan.com						lynoswald@rpkusa.com
								www.rpkusa.com

RPK ENCRYPTONITE(tm) SOFTWARE TOOLKIT NOW AVAILABLE IN ACTIVEX

The RPK Encryptonite Toolkit Allows Developers to Easily Add Strong Security to Internet, Software, Hardware and Communications Applications

SAN FRANCISCO, CA.  August 20, 1998 - RPK Security, Inc., announced today the release of the ActiveX version of its RPK Encryptonite Software Toolkit version 3.0 for Visual Basic, Visual C++, Borland's C++ Builder, Microsoft's Internet Explorer, Delphi and other ActiveX container applications or development tools.  Also available in C++ implementations and a Delphi VCL component, the RPK Toolkit provides integrators, developers and engineers with everything they need to quickly and easily incorporate fast public key encryption and strong security into their applications without extensive knowledge of cryptography.  RPK Security is a technology leader in strong and fast public key encryption for software, hardware and Internet applications. With development and distribution facilities outside of the U.S., RPK Security is able to provide its customers with a worldwide strong security solution that is available globally unlike competing products that are restricted by U.S. export!
 regulations.
	The RPK Toolkit, a software implementation of the RPK Encryptonite Engine, allows developers to build custom applications with embedded strong encryption for information sensitive applications and industries such as the Internet, communications, legal, health care and financial services.
	The RPK Toolkit is easy to use and manage, making it an attractive and readily accessible solution for developers of new applications. The RPK Toolkit includes sample applications, complete source code and comprehensive documentation. The core technology of the RPK Toolkit leverages the same mathematics behind Diffie-Hellman Key Exchange, a widely used algorithm for creating secure network-based communications systems, and is highly respected by security experts. 
	The RPK Encryptonite Engine is unique in that it combines all the benefits of other public key systems (authentication, digital signatures and digital certificates) with the speed of a secret key system into one algorithm. With the superior performance offered by RPK's Encryptonite Engine, applications requiring streaming data, sound, video or large numbers of transactions, such as credit card payments, receive instantaneous responses and secure communication links.

Features of RPK Encryptonite Software Toolkit 3.0:
Eighty different levels of encryption security 
Global availability with strong encryption
Faster encryption and decryption of data files and streams 
Based on proven mathematics of Diffie-Hellman Key Exchange algorithm
Easy to use object-oriented design
Extremely well suited to embedded applications
Less expensive to implement than competing products

Pricing and Availability:
	The RPK Encryptonite Software Toolkit is now available for licensing worldwide. Pricing starts at $695 per developer (development only). Deployment license fees are based upon custom configurations. For sales information, contact Kevin Shannon, vice president, sales at (610) 399-7999, or via e-mail at sales@rpkusa.com

The RPK Encryptonite Software Toolkit includes: Windows ActiveX,  highly portable, cross-platform, C++ class libraries with full source code for use with Win 95, 98, NT and Linux, and a VCL component for Borland's Delphi 3.0/2.0 running under Microsoft Windows 95 and NT.  It was compiled and tested with Microsoft's Visual C++, Borland C++ Builder, gnu/g++ and Borland Delphi 2.0/3.0.  C source library, Solaris and HP/UX ports, and Java implementations will be available by August 31, 1998.

ABOUT RPK SECURITY
Founded in 1995, RPK Security, Inc. is a technology leader in fast public key cryptography.  Its flagship RPK Encryptonite(tm) Engine, a strong and uniquely fast public key encryption technology, is available worldwide in custom hardware and software toolkits on multiple platforms.  RPK solutions are ideal for electronic communications, financial transactions, Internet banking, smart cards, streaming audio-video, telecommunications and more. Developed from widely accepted security mathematics and techniques, the RPK Encryptonite Engine is easily embedded into new and existing hardware and software applications.  RPK's cryptographic research and product development is based in New Zealand, Switzerland and the U.K, with worldwide sales and marketing operations in San Francisco, CA.  Visit RPK's website at www.rpkusa.com or call (212) 488-9891.




