From: partners@worldgaming.net (Tracy Kurz)
Date: Sun, 22 Feb 1998 17:27:54 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Online Casino Partners wanted...
Message-ID: <19980223010310.CQN18236@worldgaming.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Over the next three years, the Internet gaming market is expected to
generate revenues of anywhere from US$10 billion to US$20 billion, says PC
Computing. A leader in recognizing new and emerging markets, World Gaming
is pleased to become a significant resource for enabling webmasters to
participate in this exciting opportunity. 

World Gaming (www.worldgaming.net) is an innovative on-line gaming
operation offering casino-style games, a Sportsbook with real-time betting
lines, an international lottery ticket brokerage, and live video/audio
Internet broadcasting of horse-racing from around the world. World Gaming
is a wholly owned subsidiary of Starnet Communications International Inc.
(www.starnetcommunications.com), a publicly traded company and developer
and broadcaster of revenue-producing content for the Internet since 1995. 

Licensed in Antigua to accept, process, and manage real money wagers via
the Internet, World Gaming has now introduced the Partners Program, aimed
at web site operators wanting to generate more revenue and offer customers
greater entertainment value from their site. You can become a World Gaming
Partner, earning commissions, at no expense and no risk to you or your web
site. 

To collect generous revenues, all you have to do is strategically place one
of the attractive World Gaming banners on your web site. If you prefer, you
can devote an entire page to World Gaming - it's up to you. As customers
click through, you will share in the "house" profits every time one of your
customers places a wager. The more members you refer, the more commissions
you receive! 

To sign up, please go to the World Gaming Partners Program web site at:
http://www.worldgaming.net/partners 

Value is guaranteed. World Gaming is a state-of-the-art international
gaming web site and CD-ROM software package. World Gaming offers:
o Outstanding casino graphics and 3-D animations in a variety of casino
environments, including a unique "Adult-theme" casino
o A wide variety of internationally appealing casino-style games
o Complete Sportsbook with direct betting lines from Las Vegas and Europe
o Lottery brokerage featuring lotteries from all over the world
o Pari-mutuel wagering on live horse races from international race tracks
o Top-notch, reliable technical support 24 hours a day, seven days a week
o Guaranteed security of all Internet financial transactions
o Translation into 8 international languages

Because we do not accept wagers from the U.S. or Canada, World Gaming does
not believe that its business actions violate any existing regulations in
those areas. World Gaming will focus on the market outside of North America
until such time as U.S. and Canadian laws regarding Internet gaming are
clarified. It is estimated that as much as 80% of the world gambling market
is from regions outside of North America, specifically in Asia and Europe.

Details:
o You will earn 25% of the revenues earned from the customers you turn onto
World Gaming.
o Each Partner is given a unique identifying code that enables World Gaming
to ensure you receive your commissions every time one of your customers
logs in to play.
o There is absolutely no investment on your behalf.
o There is absolutely no risk on your behalf.
o You accept no liability whatsoever for the legal ramifications of
Internet gambling.

Join the World Gaming Partners Program today!







