From: Linda Reed--PCC West Campus CSC <lreed@west.cscwc.pima.edu>
Date: Sat, 28 Feb 1998 14:10:38 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: SAHMD 4/0
Message-ID: <009C27DF.0E08A460.45@west.cscwc.pima.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Prologue 4/0 SPACE ALIENS HIDE MY DRUGS
---------------------------------------

A Nuclear Bullet, With *Everyone's* Name On It:
  [Your Name Here]


Excerpt from an interview with Marilyn Manson on NPR:
MM: A lot of the lies spread by Fundamentalist Christians
   about our tour were believed by people because they 
   read them on the InterNet.
    The InterNet is the CB Radio of the 90's. People perceive
   it as a legitimate news source, which it's not.
    Eventually there will need to be some sort of laws or
   something...


Top Ten Ways To Convince The Sheeple The Revolution Is NOW:
10,9,8,.7,6,5,4,3,2...
1. Put Marilyn Manson's name on the first bullet.


"Give me nuclear freedom, or give me death."
~ Patrick Hussein


The TRUTH About Area 51:
  It's a resort-spa for the reptilian Nazis who are shaping
our present and our future, preparing to rule all of mankind
when they emerge from the underground bunkers beneath Los Alamos,
Livermore, Colorado Springs, Muleshoe, Texas, etc., at the end
of the Milleniuum.
  Why can't you buy a straight 2"x4" anymore? The reptilian Nazis
are keeping all of the good stuff for themselves. The reason for
the tight security at Area 51 is not because of secret spy-planes
and the like. The reptilian Nazi's don't want us to know that
they are all driving '56 Chevy's. (Their original plan was to
have earthlings all driving Edsels, but they tried to implement
the plan before their mind-control experiments had proven 
successful.)


Who It Is OK To Put A Fucking Bullet Through Their Head:

Officially Recognized Bad Guys--For the Sheeple, this is Saddam
  Hussein, Timothy McVeigh, Dennis Rodman, paramilitarists, 
  grandmothers who plug other people's parking meters, Branch
  Davidians (but it's a shame about the children), and The 
  Subject Of A Ten-Second Sound-Byte To Be Named Later.
  For Republicans, this is welfare cheats, the homeless, tax
  cheats making less than $100,000 per year, liberals, Ralph
  Nadar, CypherPunks, Alt2600 avocados, the 4 Horsemen, and
  anyone who looks like me.
  For the Democrats, this is the non-avant-guarde wealthy,\j
  liberals consume, Rush Limbaugh, Republican presidents, 
  rednecks, people who drink water straight out of the tap,
  and anyone who looks like me.
  For Kris Kristofferson, this is "People doing something
  dirty, decent folks can frown on..."


"Sunshine is the best disinfectant."
~ Supreme Court Justice Louis D. Brandeis, 1928

"Bullet holes let the sun shine in."
~ Supreme Asshole TruthMonger, 1998


When Existence Is Outlawed, Only Outlaws Will Exist:
  The revolution is now.
  The only question that those who have the balls to
participate in the inevitable chaos which will be needed
to balance the Tao against the current onslaught of
digitally structured reality that is being forced upon
humanity by the new technology being promoted by the
pawns of the reptilian Nazis whose headquarters is deep
within the confines of the AdamAntarctic is: "Whose brain
do I put my first bullet through?"

  For many, the answer will be, "TruthMonger!"
  Nobody likes to hear the truth, and the truth is: We
all deserve to die.
  Not only that, but the extinction of humanity, according
to our current values, epitomizes the crowning glory of
our evolutionary path.

  What places us *above* the other primates and the other
forms of life on our planet? What is it that makes us
special, that deems us worthy of ruling over all other
life forms on the planet Earth?
  It is our ability to control; our ability to master
our environment and the objects and life-forms contained
within its bounds. Ultimately, it is our ability to *kill*
whatever stands in the way of the fulfillment of our desires
and our goals.
  For all of our soul-searching, spiritual posturing, deep
down inside we all know that we live in a predatorial 
universe. Republicans cry out for bigger guns to defend
our way of life from everyone who fails to salute the flag.
Democrats cry out for the press and political leaders to
invent enemies to justify the liberals crying out for
bigger guns to protect us from the 'bad guys.'
  And it's all bullshit...

  The reason we need to launch wars and destroy our
environment is to keep the price of our refrigerators
and our color TV's reasonable--to keep the price of the
dollar high enough that we can feel good about ourselves
for saving a starving child for less than ten cents a day,
while ignoring the fact that an obese Sally Fields could
save more starving children in a week than we possibly 
could in a lifetime, just by donating one of her lunches
to the charity she is promoting.


Think About This, You Stupid Fucking Bastards:
  Why do we need to allow our basic human rights and
freedoms to be compromised?: In order for our hallowed
leaders and our protectors in the law enforcement
community to adequately protect us from the 'bad guys.'
  Why do we need to be protected from the 'bad guys'?:
Because if they win out over the 'good guys', they 
will take away our basic human rights and freedoms.


The Reason TruthMonger Will Die Broke And Alone:
  Because he invested all of his money in ClueServers,
believing that the Sheeple might one day find them
to be of value.

"TV Is Real! (Just go back to sleep, dear.)"





