From: Kurt Bantelmann <KurtBantelmann@compuserve.com>
Date: Sun, 8 Feb 1998 12:52:48 -0800 (PST)
To: Owner <cypherpunks@toad.com>
Subject: Global Ethics Cosmosofy
Message-ID: <199802081552_MC2-326E-5452@compuserve.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


To: Cypherpunks, editor.
We are impressed by your social commitment on the Internet and 
think you may find that Global Ethics Cosmosofy would 
even better support your activities and spiritual concerns since 
universal values have precedence over limited group moral codes 
in cases of conflict and its peaceful resolution in a cooperating 
information oriented and interdependent world community. 
The better arguments can be yours free, to be viewed on the 
Cosmosofy Institute Foundation website: 

<http: //www.cosmosofy.org/>

But there is more to it:
(1) Global Ethics and the overall doctrine tentatively termed 
COSMOSOFY (similar to 'globalism') will not only assist you in 
ethics to identify the higher and highest values to which priority 
consideration must be given in each case, in particular where 
a psychological or social conflict has to be resolved rationally 
and peacefully. It also helps to avoid and cure psychic disorders 
most of which are attributable to dogmatic indoctrination methods 
during childhood but which tend to remain unconscious, since 
people usually deny they feel indoctrinated. 

A severe conflict potential for humanity in the present historical 
moment is its more or less unconscious subjugation to outdated 
arbitrary moral precepts and codes imposed and indoctrinated 
during adolescence (where spiritual maturity is low), thus 
obstructing later undogmatic moral and ethical updating flexibility 
and development. However, any change of this unwholesome and 
dangerous situation is considered a political TABOO for social 
and cultic stability reasons and social control in the absence 
of GLOBAL ETHICS and a UNIVERSAL UNDOGMATIC 
RELIGION, although now possible at this historical junction.
Cosmosofy Universal Ethics provides interdisciplinary thinking 
and action patterns, not of the usual type of non-merging 
interdisciplinary exchange programs but of the new type to be 
merged in one's own mind which is now accessible for 
everybody due to interactive feedback information structures. 

(2) COSMOSOFY UNIVERSAL ETHICS
Subject: Interdisciplinary, linking  religion, law, sociology, 
philosophy, politics, sciences.

The so far missing universal ethics is provided by the 
interdisciplinarian author Bert Tellan, founder of COSMOSOFY 
and undogmatic religion (Cyber-Religion) as a doctrine designed to 
constitute the so far missing foundation for the legal 
and religious system's priority values in a peacefully cooperating and 
closely communicating global community. So far mankind was dependent
only on particularistic morals that were mutually exclusive and could 
therefore not be validated universally: of importance for peace, conflict 
resolution competence and qualification, and ecological issues. 

(3) You will find that Global Ethics Cosmosofy & Undogmatic Religion 
has been constructed with the aim to solve dogmatic 'religions' (regarded 
as cults acc. to Kant if used as an end in itself instead of a means)seen 
as a 
social PROBLEM (to be solved instead of being merely studied)  for a 
modern global society and world culture in order to 
avoid continuing antagonism instead of promoting real peace in the sense 
of absolute pacifism. So far nations, cultures or religious organizations 
favored peace conditionally under their own moral terms (excepting the 
need of 'holy' for Islamic or 'just' wars for Christians). This is no
longer 
possible in a world saturated with means of push-button mass destruction. 
In this historical context dogmatic religious cult is  no longer seen as 
an unending study subject for scientifically detached sociologists or 
psychologists of religion (just wondering as William James did at the 
great variety of religions) while making a living from it and get 
research funds - while, on the other end, no church or other educational 
institution ever bothered to even make an attempt of funding the 'further 
development or advancement of religion and of religiousness'. All the while

the Advancement of Science is considered a respectable institution: another

grave cultural inconsistency we have been indoctrinated not to notice. 
To the contrary, all through history any 'further development of religious 
thought' was condemned, persecuted as heretic or apostasy, philosophers 
or reformers (including Jesus) having been murdered to this day. This is 
due to a flawed idea of unchanging 'religion' (=false religion) which is to

be regarded as a problem and not as an endless subject of study or even 
of tolerance while cannibalism and illiteracy are also no longer being 
tolerated, in the very name of an improved, in-depth understanding of 
dynamic religion. 
The solution, thus, does not advocate atheism, non-belief or arbitrary 
values as is wrongly suggested for post-modernism, since, quite to the 
contrary, the arbitrariness of cultural relativistic values is hereby 
overcome having the whole of humanity, individual justice and human 
rights for all in mind, and not for some privileged classes or groups only.

And thus to establish true peace for mankind and be prepared for a new 
era of common cosmic adventure or communication instead of 
continuous strife with the risk of self-extinction.

View the Cosmosofy Institute Foundation Website (featuring around 100 
new articles on unresolved modern and prognosticized issues and the
consistent application of global ethics to their solution in each case): 

<http: //www.cosmosofy.org/>

Cosmosofy Institute Foundation. Kurt C. Bantelmann, editor. More details 
on request. Fax:(49)211.489533. E-mail: 106562.2403@compuserve.com





