From: netcenter-news@netscape.com
Date: Mon, 30 Mar 1998 11:57:58 -0800 (PST)
To: <cypherpunks@toad.com>
Subject: Netcenter News - Volume 5 - March 1998
Message-ID: <199803301957.LAA14701@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


  
 

Title: Netscape Netcenter News






































Welcome to Netcenter
Netcenter is dedicated to the proposition that you should be able to find everything you need online in one place. This newsletter is one of the free benefits you receive when registering with a Netcenter program.
























Finally, an online directory just for the web community. The new Member Directory from Netcenter is where professionals find each other on the web. Register today!
 








Get the world's top business news and information tailored specifically to your business interests. Sign up for Business Journal and receive a free 30-day trial of this Premium Service.























CNET reverses its Editors' Choice decision and now recommends Netscape Communicator 4.04 over Microsoft Internet Explorer 4.0.














 



 

 
Netscape and Intraware team up to offer premium SubscribNet service free to corporate customers. Get automated, hassle-free updates for client products today.











 





This issue of Netcenter News is brought to you by the Netscape Store.


























NETCENTER
ANNOUNCES
PROFESSIONAL
CONNECTIONS




Netcenter is proud to announce Professional Connections, Netscape's new online community where professionals and industry insiders can come together to discuss trends in online business, debate hot-button issues in digital culture, and mix and network with one another.

Professional Connections is not a chat room but a set of interactive forums moderated by industry experts. Forums feature discussions about Internet trends, headlines, and software, including

Who's making money on the web today?
Where do you shop online?
Online investing
Software tips and tricks

Professional Connections can work for you in many ways: as a consulting resource, as a place to air opinions, and as a virtual think tank. Coupled with the new Member Directory, an online source for locating other professionals in the Netcenter community, Professional Connections is an outstanding networking opportunity.

What's more, Professional Connections' Events Series features incisive interviews with industry luminaries and gives community members the opportunity to connect with the guests and the interviewers.

Your Netcenter membership has just become a ticket to network directly with the best minds in the interactive world. Sign up now and join us in Professional Connections.




Working on taxes? The Netscape Guide by Yahoo Finance Page has the federal and state forms you need as well as stocks, news, and events.




Use SmartUpdate to upgrade quickly and easily to the latest version of Communicator with strong encryption or 128-bit security. 




Your next book is only a click away. Amazon.com has joined Netcenter Marketplace! Browse by subject, search through 2.5 million titles, and save up to 40 percent on best-sellers.





Netscape respects your online time and Internet privacy. If you would prefer not to receive future issues, click here to to send an unsubscribe email or reply to this message with the word unsubscribe in the subject line.




Copyright (c) 1998. Netscape Communications Corporation. All rights reserved.
























