From: Gene Tsudik <tsudik@pollux.usc.edu>
Date: Mon, 9 Mar 1998 09:02:08 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Final CFP: 5th ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security
Message-ID: <199803091701.JAA20079@pollux.usc.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



                          Final Call for Papers

                          Fifth ACM Conference on
                    Computer and Communications Security

                          San Francisco, California
                             November 3-5, 1998
                           Sponsored by ACM SIGSAC

Papers offering novel research contributions in any aspect of computer
security are solicited for submission to the Fifth ACM Conference on
Computer and Communications Security. Papers may present theory, technique,
applications, or practical experience on topics including but not limited to

 access control         authentication           accounting and audit

 mobile code security   applied cryptography     data/system integrity
 
 cryptographic          electronic commerce      intrusion detection
 protocols

 key management         privacy and anonymity    intellectual property
                                                 protection

 information warfare    secure networking        secure operating systems

 viruses and worms      security management      distributed systems
                                                 security

 database security      smart-cards and secure   security verification
                        PDAs

Accepted papers will be presented at the conference and published by the ACM
in a conference proceedings. Outstanding papers will be invited for possible
publication in ACM Transactions on Information and System Security.

Instructions for paper submissions: Submitted papers must not substantially
overlap papers that have been published or that are simultaneously submitted
to a journal or a conference with a proceedings. Papers should be at most 15
pages excluding the bibliography and well-marked appendices (using 11-point
font and reasonable margins on 8.5'x11' paper), and at most 20 pages total.
Committee members are not required to read the appendices, and so the paper
should be intelligible without them. Papers should be submitted in a form
suitable for anonymous review (no author names or affiliations).

   * Send via email to reiter@research.att.com a plain ASCII text message
     containing the title and abstract of your paper, the authors' names,
     email and postal addresses, phone and fax numbers, and identification
     of the contact author.

   * In addition, submit your paper using ONE of the following two methods.

        o Electronic submission (preferred): Instructions for submitting
          your Postscript paper by e-mail can be obtained from
          http://www.research.att.com/~reiter/ccs5/esub.html or by sending
          email to ccs98@research.att.com with the Subject line containing
          "HELP". It is strongly recommended that you electronically submit
          your paper at least five days in advance of the submission
          deadline, to allow us adequate time to verify that we can print
          your paper (and if not, to allow you to submit your paper in
          hardcopy to be received by the submission deadline). We cannot be
          held responsible for papers that we cannot print.

          OR

        o Hardcopy submission: Send eighteen (18) copies of your paper to
          the program chair at the address below with a cover letter
          indicating that your paper is a submission for the 5th ACM
          Conference on Computer and Communications Security, and listing
          the authors' names, email and postal addresses, phone and fax
          numbers, and identifying the contact author.

Submissions received after the submission deadline will be rejected without
review. Where possible all further communications to authors will be via
email.

                  Paper submissions due:    April 3, 1998
                  Acceptance notification:  June 5, 1998
                  Final papers due:         July 16, 1998

Instructions for panel proposals The conference may include panel sessions
addressing topics of interest to the computer security community. Proposals
for panels should be no longer than five (5) pages in length and should
include possible panelists and an indication of which of those panelists
have confirmed participation. Send two (2) hardcopies of your proposal to
the program chair at the address below with a cover letter indicating that
your proposal is for the 5th ACM Conference on Computer and Communications
Security, and listing the proposers' names, email and postal addresses, and
phone and fax numbers.

                   Panel proposals due:     May 1, 1998
                   Acceptance notification: June 5, 1998

 Steering committee chair: Ravi Sandhu, George Mason University
 General chair:            Li Gong, JavaSoft

 Program chair:            Mike Reiter
                           AT&T Labs, Room A269, 180 Park Avenue
                           Florham Park, NJ 07932-0971 USA
                           phone: +973-360-8349

 Awards chair:             Jacques Stern, ENS/DMI
 Publication chair:        Stuart Stubblebine, AT&T Labs
 Publicity chair:          Gene Tsudik, USC ISI

Program committee:
 Martin Abadi, DEC SRC              David Naccache, Gemplus
 Bill Cheswick, Lucent/Bell Labs    Hilarie Orman, DARPA/ITO
 Carl Ellison, Cybercash            Avi Rubin, AT&T Labs--Research
 Ed Felten, Princeton University    Pierangela Samarati, Universita di Milano
 Paul Karger, IBM T.J. Watson       Gene Tsudik, USC ISI
 Steve Kent, BBN Corporation        Paul Van Oorschot, Entrust Technologies
 Ueli Maurer, ETH Zurich            Bennet Yee, UCSD
 Cathy Meadows, Naval Res. Lab      Moti Yung, CertCo

For more information, visit http://www.research.att.com/~reiter/ccs5
 			or  http://www.isi.edu/~gts/cfp.html




