From: winn@Infowar.Com
Date: Sun, 17 Mar 1996 12:20:01 +0800
To: abacard@well.sf.ca.us
Subject: InfoWarCon V 1996: Call For Papers
Message-ID: <199603170401.XAA18462@mailhost.IntNet.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


               P L E A S E  D I S T R I B U T E  W I D E L Y

                   C A L L   F O R   P A P E R S 

                          InfoWarCon 5, 1996
           Fifth International Information Warfare Conference
            "Dominating the Battlefields of Business and War"
                         September 5-6, 1996
                           Washington, DC

Sponsored by:
     Winn Schwartau, Interpact, Inc.
     National Computer Security Association
     Robert Steele, Open Source Solutions, Inc.

Information Warfare represents a global challenge that faces all late-industrial 
and information age nation states.  It also represents the easiest and cheapest 
way for less developed nation-states and religious or political movements to 
anonymously and grievously attack major nations and international corporations.

This Fifth International Conference on Information Warfare is an unclassified, 
open source conference, and will examine US and global perspectives on all three 
classes of Information Warfare:

Class One: Personal Privacy: In Cyberspace You Are Guilty Until Proven Innocent
Class Two: Industrial and Economic Spying and Warfare
Class Three: Global Conflict, Terrorism and the Military

The three planned tracks will be:

     * Financial/Civilian Information Warfare (Class I and Class II)
     * Military and Terrorist Information Warfare (Class III)
     * Offensive and Defensive Technologies for Business and Government (Classes 
I, II and III)

We are seeking forward thinking papers, demonstrations and interactive concepts 
for presentation to an audience of 1000+, representing civilian and military 
from more than 20 countries, all branches of the US government and the top US 
corporations.

The papers should offer new perspectives, attitudes, studies, and technologies 
that can be used for the advancement of the field. You are free to submit on any 
subject matter, including, but not limited to:

     - Battlefield Dominance 
     - Industrial Espionage: cases, policies and defense.
     - Military perspectives on "Information in Warfare"
     - Policy Quagmires - Policy Resolutions
     - Personal Privacy in the global marketplace
     - Denial of Service techniques and technologies for the private sector and 
the military
     - Terrorism and Counter-terrorism
     - Defending Against the Internet: new techniques and methods
     - Threats to Global Electronic Commerce and Solutions
     - Anonymous International Banking
     - The convergence of the commercial and military in the Post Cold War World
     - InfoWar Technologies
     - Case Studies
     - Your Thoughts and Ideas

Please submit your 1-2 page concept white papers no later than May 5, 1996. The 
evaluation committee will let you know the results by May 15, at which point we 
will need your complete submission no later than July 15, 1996. Send you papers 
to: 
	Betty@Infowar.Com

For sponsorship opportunities and registration information at InfoWarCon V 1996, 
please contact:

National Computer Security Association
1.800.488.4595
pgates@ncsa.com or 
infowar96@ncsa.com


Peace
Winn

		        Winn Schwartau - Interpact, Inc.
		        Information Warfare and InfoSec
		       V: 813.393.6600 / F: 813.393.6361
			    Winn@InfoWar.Com





