From: Lucky Green <shamrock@netcom.com>
Date: Wed, 23 Oct 1996 23:52:51 -0700 (PDT)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: But first, something completely different... (fwd)
Message-ID: <Pine.3.89.9610232300.A11017-0100000@netcom14>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


I know this forward is on the edge, but notice the request for increased 
wiretap capability. Besides, it is funny.

--Lucky

---------- Forwarded message ----------
Date: Wed, 23 Oct 96 11:10:26 PDT
From: Bruce Erickson <be1@ElSegundoCA.NCR.COM>
To: ca-firearms@lists.best.com
Subject: But first, something completely different...

Motorcycle gangs, Banditos and Hell's Angeles, in Scandanavia have
been fighting for a couple years.  A previous story in this paper
described how Hell's Angles broke into a Danish prison to throw a 
hand grenade into the cell of the Banditos' president. 

Our friends who want to ban mouse guns don't know what trouble is
possible.  It is possible to get anti-tank missiles on the black-market.

[story]

"Nordic summit on Biker Violence"
Saskis Sissons
"The Eurpoean"
10-16 October 1996

Denmark's justice minister justice has called a summit to discuss 
a joint  Nordic campaign against the biker gangs whose violent 
confrontations are posing an increasing danger to the public
throught the region.

Bjorn Westh, who is said to be shocked and furious at the latest
violence which left 2 people dead and 19 ingured after a rocket 
attack in Copenhagen, will meet his cunterparts from Sweden,
Norway and Finland to consider strategies against the gangs.

A justice ministry spokeswoman said: "It will ve an exchange of 
ideas between the ministers. It's a very serious situation in Denmark
at the moment abd these levels of violence could easily spread to 
other parts of Scandanivia.  Westh is looking into the possibility
of a total ban on the gangs but his priority is to secure the
safety of civilians."

Westh's initiative follows a meeting on 7 Octobe bwtewen Danish
Prime Minister Poul Nyrup Tasmussen and Swedish Prime Minister
Goran Persson, who promised their countries would fight the bikers
together.

Calls for concerted national and regional action against the 
escalating gang warfare have been mounting.  Only last week 1000
staged a demonstration outside the Hell's Angles compound at Titagade
in Copenhagen's Norrebro district.  A few days later were awakened 
in the early morning by an anti-tank rocket exploding in the bikers'
clubhouse.

[btw: this is the second missile attack on the HAs this year.
the first was in the late spring]

After months of prevarication the Danes have resolved to take 
tough action against the gangs.

Parliament is this week rushing through legislation which will
prevent members of the feuding Hell's Angles and Banditos meeting 
at their clubhouses in populated areas, and a national task force 
has been set up to combat the gangs.

Commander Per Larsen, who is heading the new unit, said: "The new
legislation is good news for us and we are pleased with the initiatives
of the prime minuster and justiice ministers.  But we would like to
see parliament giving us further powers to bug and phone-tap suspects
and to search houses secretly."

The feud, which began in 1994, has claimed 9 lives and injured 50
people throughout the region.

[end story]


Diane: "We need stronger tank missile controls.  Ban the sale of cheap
easily concealed tank missiles.  Require licensing and training
classes.  Store them at missile clubs"

Tanya: "There is already total prohibition on the possession of tank
missiles by private citizens and murder is still illegal." 

Diane: "Be quiet, this is a fund raising event."






