From: sameer@c2.org
Date: Thu, 9 May 1996 15:15:34 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: COMMUNITY CONNEXION ANNOUNCES UNCENSORED USENET ACCESS TO THE FRENCH INTERNET COMMUNITY
Message-ID: <199605082348.QAA05536@atropos.c2.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


For Immediate Release - May 9, 1996
Contact: Sameer Parekh 510-601-9777x3

	COMMUNITY CONNEXION ANNOUNCES UNCENSORED USENET ACCESS TO
		    THE FRENCH INTERNET COMMUNITY

Berkeley, CA - Community ConneXion, Inc., today announced that it will
for a limited time offer free Usenet access to anyone in France.

The announcement comes in the wake of the arrest of two managers for
French Internet service providers. The two managers at WorldNet and
FranceNet are being held responsible for the pornographic material
distributed on the "alt.binaries" newsgroups. They face up to three
years in jail.

In response to these arrests, the Association of French Internet
Professionals (AFPI) has called for a complete blackout of French
newsgroups and many providers in France have cut off news service
entirely. Community ConneXion, Inc., has announced free Usenet access
to the French in response to the resulting blackout.

"'The Internet views censorship as damage, and routes around it,'"
said Community ConneXion President Sameer Parekh, quoting a famous
saying on the net, "The Internet transcends national boundaries. This
promotion makes that fact obvious."

Community ConneXion offers full Internet access to its customers, with
no content-based restrictions on materials its customers may read or
make available on the Internet.

During this limited time promotion, people connected to the Internet
in France may access a full uncensored Usenet feed merely by pointing
their newsreaders at news.c2.net. People in other countries may also
get access to a full uncensored Usenet feed by purchasing service from
Community ConneXion. Information on how to sign up for service with
C2.NET is available at http://www.c2.net/.

Community ConneXion, Inc. is the leading provider of privacy on the
Internet.  Dedicated to uncompromising security, they provide
anonymous and pseudonymous Internet services, including secure web
services. Information is available at their web site at
http://www.c2.net/, or contact Sameer Parekh at 510-601-9777x3.




