From: sales@elementrix.co.il
Date: Tue, 2 Apr 1996 16:05:40 +0800
To: mail2news@myriad.alias.net
Subject: Elementrix Technology Announces Power Quantum Cryptography
Message-ID: <9604010051591.The_Win-D.jacktech@delphi.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Elementrix Technology Announces Power Quantum Cryptography


Elementrix Technology, a leading developer of security software, including
the well-known Power One Time Pad (POTP(TM)) today announced the first
commercial release of a next-generation unbreakable security product.

Power Quantum Cryptography pushes data security into the modern world of
quantum physics.  Elementrix PQC(TM) is your best choice for securing
your sensitive data against Hackers, Crackers, Snoops, NSA, and other Evil
People.

Elementrix, long recognized as an innovator in unconventional data security
technology, combines absolute security with utility, performance and ease
of use.  Our remarkably simple algorithm gives you unprecedented speed
in a software-only implementation.  PQC requires no additional hardware,
and no knowledge of quantum physics.

By using a novel method (covered by trade secret law and now patent-pending
in 26 countries) our server software transmits packets onto your local
network without reading them, thus preserving their unique quantum
properties.  Any attempt to read the packet, except by the intended
recipient will destroy the quantum waveform of the packet.  Our
sophisticated error-recovery system will detect this and re-initialize
with a predefined Emergency Quantum State, which has all the same
characteristics as the Normal Quantum State, but has not been compromised
by the attempted eavesdropper.

PQC provides you with fast, reliable, and secure data transmissions,
XOR encrypted with unbreakable quantum randomness.  Our Plug-and-Play
installation assures that you can have secure transmissions within
minutes.  PQC ensures that your data transmissions are absolutely
unbreakable, guaranteed by the Laws of Physics.

The innovative PQC technology requires no public or private Keys, no master
or session key, no key management, no key escrow or trusted third parties,
no key distribution servers, no access codes, no substantial overhead, no
special training for users, and no waiting.  PQC gives you total security
from anyone without the aid of an object code disassembler.

Elemntrix PQC(tm) version 1.0 requires 80386 or higher IBM PC (or 100%
compatible), 4MB RAM, MS-Windows 3.1, Windows For Workgroups, or Windows 95,
a MODEM or LAN connection, and any TCP/IP stack for Windows.

For more information:

Tel: +972-4-550963  Fax: +972-4-550356
Within the US and Canada, phone: 1-212-888-8879  fax: 1-212-935-3882
e-mail: sales@elementrix.co.il
        info@elementrix.co.il
for customer and technical support:  support@elementrix.co.il





