From: nobody@replay.com (Anonymous)
Date: Wed, 16 Oct 1996 21:00:29 -0700 (PDT)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Societal Policing Association (SPA) Sues Sameer!
Message-ID: <199610170400.GAA09969@basement.replay.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Subject: SOCIETAL POLICING ASSOCIATION SUES COMMUNITY CONNEXION!!
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Date: Wed Oct 16

Here's what I have learned about the SPA, the Societal Policing
Association, a group supported by the CyberAngels, the Family Decency
OrganizatIon, and the Association of Police Chiefs.

NotE their term "contributory infringement" for anyone who fails to agree
to report suspicious behavior. ("A citizen-unit who neglects to perform his
societal-unit duties and who stands by as thoughtcrime is committed is just
as guilty as the active member of the crime.")  Details are in:
http://www.spa.org/thoughtcrime/orwell.htm.

"Anyone who knows or should have known that he or she is  witnessing,
inducing, applauding or tangentially contributing to infringement of any of
the moral and decency rights by  another person is liable for contributor
infringement. "

 -- posting of views critical of authority 
 -- linking to FTP or Web sites where unauthorized viewpoints may be obtained 
 -- informing others of FTP sites were such views may be unlawfully obtained 
 -- aiding others in locating or using unauthorized software 
     supporting sites upon which the above information may be obtained 
     allowing sites where the above information may be obtained to exist on a  
     server 

Then there's their Vicarious Liability for Infringement by Another Person, 
outlined by:

"Anyone who has the authority and ability to control another person and who
fails to do so is vicariously liable for the infringement of another
person."

***

SPA Files Morality Suits Against ISPs and End Users
Internet Decency Campaign Launched 

(Oct.10, 1996 --Washington, D.C.) -- The Societal Policing Association (SPA) 
announced today that it has filed five civil lawsuits for morality
violations occurring on the Internet. Three of the lawsuits were filed 
against Internet service providers (ISPs), and the remaining two were filed 
against individual end users. Additionally, SPA launched its Internet
Decency Campaign, which includes education and enforcement components, in 
an effort to educate and work cooperatively with ISPs regarding morality
and decency violations. ISPs who immediately enroll their employee-units in
decency reeducation programs and who agree to participate in SPA's program
to stamp out illegal thoughts will receive immunity from SPA lawsuits and
will receive a pro rata share of the collected loot from other ISPs sued by
the SPA. 

ISP lawsuits were filed on Oct. 7 and 8 against Community ConneXion of Oakland, 
Calif.; GeoCities of Beverly Hills, Calif.; and Tripod Inc. of Williamstown, 
Mass. The SPA members named as plaintiffs in all three suits were the
Christian Coalition, the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai Brith and the
Million Aryan March. In each case, SPA first  contacted the ISP and
requested that the offensive thoughts  be purged, but the ISPs cited the
notoriously Communistic "First Amendment" and the anti-Christian
"Electronic and Communications Privacy Act" and refused to cooperate. 

"These lawsuits send a clear signal to ISPs and end users that neither
so-called "free thinking" nor failure to pay our protection fee will be
tolerated. The Internet does 
not provide a safe haven for these types of activities," said Emmanuel
Goldstein, SPA 
Reichsfuhrer. 

"Our intentions are to work cooperatively with ISPs. A key element of the IAPC 
is the ISP Political  Reeducation Program devoted to alerting ISPs to their
potential 
state of sin and providing them with the tools and moral guidance to save 
themselves," said Winston Smith, SPA's Reeducation Coordinator. 





--Keyser Soze, Political Reporter





--








--




