From: Hal Finney <hal@rain.org>
Date: Sun, 17 Nov 1996 13:05:48 -0800 (PST)
To: minow@apple.com
Subject: Re: Computer CPU chips with built-in crypto?
Message-ID: <199611172105.NAA04230@crypt.hfinney.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


From: Martin Minow <minow@apple.com>
> I'm not sure if I can answer this but, at last week's SF cypherpunks
> meeting, an Intel engineer asked whether there might be any interest
> in a computer chip with some sort of encryption mechanism built
> into the chip. As I understand it, this chip would process an
> encrypted instruction stream. I.e., it could not execute a program
> unless the "key" for that program was first loaded into the chip.
>
> An interesting idea: does anyone have more information?

This sounds like something which might be used in a set-top-box or
"information appliance" application where pay-per-use programs would
be loaded from a CDROM or network connection.

People have been dreaming about pay per use software for many years.
It is a similar idea to the "mini application" concept which would
replace the monolithic super-apps, the Microsoft Words and the giant
do-everything web-browsers/newsreaders/mail-clients, with small, single
function utilities.  This is part of the idea behind Apple's OpenDoc
and Microsoft's OLE.  In the same way, instead of buying a big program
for hundreds of dollars, you'd just download and use the functionality
you needed for a small fee.

Yet in practice it is not clear whether either of these trends will have
any market success.  Monolithic applications seem to be doing very well,
with more integration being the trend, not less.  And the whole idea
of introducing metering to a market which is used to paying just once
for access is one which is bound to meet resistance.  Look at AOL which
is going to single-charge unlimited access to the net.

So in both cases the trend looks to be going in the opposite direction.

Another possible application for the built in encryption is software
piracy protection.  You'd unlock software for your CPU but it would
not run on anybody else's without a different key code.  Here again
there is not much benefit to the end user, unless software prices come
down dramatically when this device is used.  But otherwise the computer
manufacturers are selling computers which have features which will limit
the powers of the buyers, and having to sell them more expensively to
boot because of the special chip.  In these days of razor thin profit
margins in the PC business it is hard to see how this will sell.

Hal




