From: "Rev. Ben" <samman-ben@CS.YALE.EDU>
Date: Tue, 30 Jan 1996 04:01:25 +0800
To: Den of CryptoAnarchists <cypherpunks@toad.com>
Subject: New Software
Message-ID: <Pine.A32.3.91.960128232626.26112B-100000@FROG.ZOO2.CS.YALE.EDU>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Release time.

And I guess I finally get to add my name to the roles of Cpunks that 
'write code'.  

I finished a release of a simple Zero Knowledge Authentication system 
that uses the GNU Multiprecision Library to implement a modified 
Fiat-Feige-Shamir ZKIPS.  It is written in C on FreeBSD 2.1-R but should 
run on anything that uses BSD socket code.  I tried to write it fairly 
portably.

It is a very early release with little bounds checking or any of the 
hardening that would be required in a secure environment--hell in a 
secured environment, you'd want to write the bignum package yourself.  
But in any case, its just to get some practice writing this sort of code 
as well as amuse myself

My latest project is to write a HTTP anonymizer--sort of like a bit 
launderer.  The plan would be to allow a server to be browsed without 
actually giving away its real address by using a proxy.

The client would have an encrypted URL that would be passed to the 
proxy.  The proxy, using its own private key would decrypt the real URL 
and make the  HTTP request to the server.  This would opaque the server's 
identity from the client.

While this sounds all well and good, unless there are multiple proxies 
deployed a-la Mixmaster with encapsulated encryption, there is the threat 
that the proxy would be able to match up server-client pairs.

In any case, I'm open to suggestions on this project--its very open ended 
and should be done in a couple of months.

If anyone would like a copy of the work done mail me and I'll send you a 
tarball.

Ben.

PS: Does anyone know of any French COMPUSEC firms that I could contact?  
I'd like to try to get a job there for next year.
____
Ben Samman..............................................samman@cs.yale.edu
"If what Proust says is true, that happiness is the absence of fever, then
I will never know happiness. For I am possessed by a fever for knowledge,
experience, and creation."                                      -Anais Nin
PGP Encrypted Mail Welcomed      Finger samman@powered.cs.yale.edu for key
Want to give a soon-to-be college grad a job?         Mail me for a resume





