From: Hroller Anonymous Remailer <hroller@c2.org>
Date: Thu, 1 Feb 1996 10:06:05 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: No Subject
Message-ID: <199602010110.RAA21647@infinity.c2.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


At 07:25 PM 1/30/96 -0800, Lucky Green wrote:

>>I take it its completely legal to set up a Virus ftp site then?
>
>AFIK, in the US it is legal to set up a virus ftp site. I don't know if
>someone has actually done it. Don't count on it lasting. Some European
>countries have already outlawed virus (read knowledge) distribution.

Anyone interested in visiting a good virus site should point their browsers to:

http://www.xcitement.com/virus/

Quite a good site, really.  It hasn't been "Netscape Enhanced" yet, so there
are no frames and tables and inline A/V, but it gets the job done.  They
offer a *lot* of virus source code (almost all of it in x86 assembler) and
many related resources.  Some highlights of the home page are included below.

I would recommend the use of something like WebWhacker, which automagically
downloads the contents of a web site to your local system and edits the html
files to work correctly from your local web browser.  It will allow you to
replicate the site quickly and easily, instead of clicking on each of the
more than 2500 links one at a time.

Hope this helps.  If you're interested, better get there quickly.  (Of
course, it's been up for six months now, so it's likely already withstood a
substantial amount of negative response.  It may be there to stay.)

---- 8< ----
        Welcome to the VIRUS Source Homepage!
        This page contains several virus code generators, a few mutation
engines, over 500 virus source files and over 2,100 executable virus files.
This material is being submitted for educational purposes only. Play at you
own risk. But have fun! 
        The purpose of this page is not to inflame, but to educate,
stimulate and confront you with alternative information on the sensitive
issue of virus creation and propagation. The only way in which to know the
whole of a subject, is by gaining knowledge from every variety of opinion on
the subject, and studying all modes in which it can be looked at. Inform
yourself by analyzing and studying the source code of actual viruses, read
the virus writing & assembly language tutorials. Then consider and examine
every variety of opinion on the subject; the anti-virus folks, mainstream
society, and most importantly ideas and opinions that are considered
radical, reactionary, minority or stigmatized by some other uncomplimentary
label. 
        No wise person ever acquired wisdom in any other way... 
        A special note to those of you who would like to see an end to this
page: If all humankind minus one were of one opinion, and only one person
were of the contrary opinion, humankind would be no more justified in
silencing that one person than it, if it had the power, would be justified
in silencing humankind... 

What's New?
        Last updated on 12/26/95.
Message Board
Code Generators
        The 2nd Generation in Virus Creation (46k) 
        Virus Creation Lab (164k) Password: Chiba City 
        Mass-Produced Code Generator (45k) 
        Instant Virus Production Kit (39k) 
        Trojan Horse Construction Kit (18k) 
        German Virus Construction Kit (12k) 
Mutation Engines
        Mutation Engine (13k) 
        Mutation Engine Tests (18k) 
        Polymorphic Engine (8k) 
        Visible Mutation Engine (20k) 
Source Code
        [A-Z]
Executable Files
        [A-Z]
Debug Scripts
        Over 33 debug script files (184k) 
Miscellanous
        Debug.com based interrupt stripper (3k) 
        V-86 based interrupt stripper (13k) 
        VSUMX507.ZIP (96k) - database of viruses. 
Assembly Language (resources)
Virus Writing Tutorials

---- 8< ----





