From: daniel@earthstar.com
Date: Fri, 29 Nov 1996 00:22:33 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Buy your COMPUTER parts direct from any wholesaler!
Message-ID: <199611290822.AAA00824@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


BUY QUALITY COMPUTERS AND COMPUTER PARTS 
DIRT CHEAP!!!

YOU'RE THROWING YOUR HARD-EARNED MONEY AWAY, 
if you're not buying your computer parts direct from wholesalers, 
using my method.

Stop relying on unethical computer salesmen to sell you your computer 
and all its ancillary parts. Why pay full retail. With my method, you can 
not only PAY WHOLESALE PRICES, but your purchases will be 
TAX FREE, coming from out of state!

You could be buying computer parts for your friends, neighbors, family, 
coworkers, employers and anyone else. You choose if you add a profit 
for yourself or not.

I was the purchasing agent for over six years with a multimillion dollar 
computer company. I've been in the business for myself for the last four 
years. Believe me, I know what I'm talking about. And I'm willing to 
share my secrets, along with a list of hundreds of contacts in the 
wholesale computer business for just $4.95.

If you still need convincing, E-Mail me at daniel@earthstar.com. If 
you're already convinced that my nominal fee is well worth the fantastic 
savings you can begin enjoying on your computer parts, send $5.00
to Daniel Decker,11904 Blueway Ave. , OKC, OK 73162
Be sure and include your e-mail address

I will immediately e-mail you my secret, oh-so-easy method to getting 
wholesale costs, tax free, and the list of wholesale computer companies. 
The list includes the contact names and phone numbers that will help 
you find any part you need, from RAM chips to CD ROM burners.
I'm so confident that this information will pay for itself many times
over, I'll refund the COMPLETE purchase price if your not 100
percent satisfied. No questions asked, no hard feelings, period.

WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR?  The longer you wait, the more 
money you could be wasting. Contact me immediately. I'm ready to 
help you save money.

			Daniel Decker
			daniel@earthstar.com







