From: The Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition             <wsj-announce@interactive.wsj.com>
Date: Thu, 12 Sep 1996 08:43:53 +0800
To: Multiple recipients of list WSJ-ANNOUNCE3             <WSJ-ANNOUNCE3@LISTSERV.DOWJONES.COM>
Subject: Important News from The Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition
Message-ID: <2.2.32.19960911141312.006aabc8@pop.dowjones.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Dear Wall Street Journal reader:

Your trial subscription to The Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition ends
in less than two weeks, on Sept. 21, 1996.

We hope you've had the chance to explore the Interactive Edition fully
during this extensive trial period. If not, visit us today at http://wsj.com.
Be sure to check out key features such as Personal Journal, which enables you
to create a personalized view of current Journal news, and our extensive
Company Briefing Books. A brief tour of our most powerful features is at
http://wsj.com/tour.htm.

If you wish to continue with your subscription after the trial ends, you
don't need to re-register. Just fill out a brief online form and provide us
with payment information; we won't charge your credit card until after our
trial period is over. An annual subscription costs just $49 a year, or $29 a
year if you subscribe to any print edition of The Wall Street Journal.

To convert to an annual subscription, just access http://wsj.com and click
on the "Convert Now" graphic. If you do not wish to convert to an annual
subscription, you do not need to do anything -- you will not be billed and
your subscription will be canceled automatically at the end of the trial.

You may also be interested in a special offer available to users of
Microsoft's Internet Explorer. Microsoft has made arrangements with several
premier publishers on the Web, including the Interactive Edition, to offer
subscriptions to Internet Explorer users at no charge through the end of this
year. If you use the latest release of Internet Explorer as your Web browser,
you will be able to keep reading the Interactive Edition through Dec. 31,
1996 and there is no need for you to provide us with payment information at
this time. For more information on this offer, you can visit
http://wsj.com/ie.html or ask us questions at the e-mail address below.

We hope you'll stay with us as a charter annual subscriber. The coming
months will see continued progress and expansion on all fronts in the
Interactive Edition -- with more Briefing Books, an improved and enhanced
Personal Journal, more exclusive news coverage, a greatly expanded search
archive and a variety of new tools that we hope will make keeping track of
the news easier and more enjoyable.

If you have questions or comments, e-mail us at the address below or call
Customer Service at 1-800-369-2834 or 1-609-514-0870.

Neil Budde
Editor
The Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition
info@interactive.wsj.com

        --------------------------------------------------------
The WSJ-ANNOUNCE3 list is a service of The Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition
(http://wsj.com).

If you no longer wish to receive messages from the WSJ-ANNOUNCE3 list, simply
reply to
this message and in the body of your message type:

UNSUBSCRIBE WSJ-ANNOUNCE3





