From: WEB Tech #5 <webtech5@rollerblade.com>
Date: Thu, 24 Oct 1996 06:17:37 -0700 (PDT)
To: "'CYPHERPUNKS@toad.com>
Subject: In-Line Skating Safety and Courtesy
Message-ID: <c=US%a=_%p=Rollerblade._Inc%l=EXCHANGE-961024131748Z-1310@mail.rollerblade.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Message:
You have to do something about your products users.  Some
sort of responsible behaviour training.  Here is a rant I made
some months ago to a bicycle specific mailing list.  (btw, my
hand is still in pain)

I am now convinced that there must be something about either cycling
specific shoes, clipless pedal cleats, or perhaps the little mirror I
have on my helmet that attracts users of inline skates so strongly
that they crash into me.  I used to think that it was a property of
the bicycle, until last night.

I went for an evening ride, and stopped to listen to some bagpipe
players practicing in a local park last night.  My bike was 10 feet
away, leaning against a tree.  I was standing off the path, on a place
where the paving had been widened to accommodate a manhole.  A skater
was skating backwards, and ran into me, knocking me over.  I jammed
several fingers landing (officially hyperextention of a long list of
Latin words).  My hand is now in a brace, and since I already have
chronic tendinitis, it may well be the better part of a year before it
returns to its normal level of pain.

I have no idea who the skater is, he picked himself up, and sprinted
off,
before I had a chance to get up myself, let alone time to offer my
speculations on his parentage, and level of intelligence.  (I suppose
he was displaying some intelligence, for if I knew who he was, I would
bring a charge of battery against him, in addition to a civil
action that would include the maker of the skates. Not knowing
who it was, or what brand of skates he wore makes such actions
much more difficult.)  I had to ride the remaining
three miles home with my left (small favor, at least I can still
write) arm on my lap.

What particularly gets me about the clown last night, is that he was
being spectacturaly irresponsible.  This is a fairly popular park, and
this was a busy time for a weekday.  He shouldn't have been skating at
speed on the path, let alone not facing the direction of travel.

While I would have preferred that he instead have hit a brick wall,
I at least had comparable mass to him, and still have reasonable
bone strength, even if my tendons are in poor shape.  Had he hit one of
the parks frailer users, the result could have
included a broken hip, or worse.  (it is popular with seniors, who
often take their evening constutional 4 abreast across the path.) I
don't ride thru it normally (I'm not gonna take out someones
grandmother), and in fact had walked my bike to listen to the pipers.

When I have complained about problem interactions with skaters before,
it was suggested that part of the problem was that I was using the
bike path, as they aren't safe for bicyles any more.  Well on Sunday,
I came up behind two skaters on the road, in single file, climbing a
hill.  I made the usual "passing left" cry, and started to pass.  The
second skater was headphone equipped, and thus apparently didn't hear
me.  He started to pass the lead skater as my front wheel pulled
alongside.  His skate struck my wheel, luckily at ground level. That
is when he became aware of my presence. We both managed to remain
upright, and I swerved further out into the traffic lane (I had
checked for oncoming cars before starting to pass.  The skater
didn't).  Again, no apology was offered by the skater, I suggested
that wearing headphones weren't a good idea on the street, he made an
obscene reply.

At this point, I am very tempted to switch from my current long
wheelbase, fairly low bottom bracket recumbent bike, to a short
wheelbase recumbent with a high bottom bracket (a design that places
the pedals and chainwheels at the very front of the bike about 25 to
30 inches off the ground), and equip it with an extra "chainring", a
14" carbide tipped one from that well known bike parts maker Black &
Decker.

The electric bell that I have mounted inside the bar is clearly
inaudible, even at times to those that aren't blocking out the world.
I have heard speculation on a "lower pitch" air horn that operates off
a water bottle filled with compressed air. (the message they convey is
_LARGE TRUCK_ not bicycle).   (of course that wouldn't have helped with
the incident
that prompted me to dictate this rant.

Some of your users have clearly taken too many falls without
a helmet.  Others just don't have a clue about rules of the
road.  I repeatedly have problems with skaters that make sudden
U turns without looking, nor was this the first time I have
had a problem with a skater skating in the direction they did
not face. (I was riding, they were oncoming, I was able to evade by
putting my bike into the drainage ditch beside the path).


SECOND Message:
I just read your "asphalt bites" safety tips.  NOT ONCE DOES
IT MENTION OTHER VEHICLES AND RULES OF THE ROAD.  It talks
about saving the riders skin, but not that of the
other users of the space they inflict themselves on.

No mention is made about operating at night, etc.  You don't
suggest a mirror, and the "quiz" that tells people to ditch
the headphones isn't mentioned on the page.  This is
truly irresponsible, and I hope some jury suitably penalizes you
for your stupid actions.

Since I wish to retain my anonymity, please send the reply
to cypherpunks@toad.com, and I will see it.  No, I don't want
an apology, I want notice that the web page, and product packaging
has been updated, stressing that inline skaters need to learn
to a: share, b: be aware of other traffic (don't U turn into the
path of another user,  look before making any sudden change of
direction or lane) c: don't come to a sudden stop in the middle of a
mixed use
"bike" path because a friend was coming the other direction, and
you stopped to chat, d: operate "predictably" so if nothing
else the other users can take steps to avoid you.
e: ditch the tunes, f: have at least one set of eyes facing
the direction you are travelling (yes, you can ride backwards,
but you have to have someone spotting for you for the whole time)
g: stay out of the lane that is for oncoming traffic -- if
the path is narrow (like most rail trails) this means ride
in single file.

REPLY FROM ROLLERBLADE INC.

Dear Mr. Random Nerd:

Thank you for your e-mail message concerning in-line skating safety and
more specifically, the "rules of the road".  

Public trails are used for many types of sporting activities (walking,
biking, skating etc.).  What the issue becomes is that all of us must
learn to be courteous to other types of users, much like on public
roadways which are utilized by cars, trucks, and motorcycles where
everyone must adhere to a common set of rules.  

Regarding your issue with Rollerblade Inc., we feel that your anger
towards us is misdirected.  A good analogy to help me illustrate the
issue for you would be this:  if a person walking down the road throws a
McDonalds wrapper on the ground, is McDonalds littering?  It is up to us
all to be skating (and biking) ambassadors who educate those who are
beginners about the "rules of the road (trails)".  Just as there are
problems with uncourteous skaters, there are also uncourteous bikers out
there who choose not to follow these rules.

Rollerblade recognized early on the importance of safety education in
creating this sport.  We helped to create and, along with numerous other
in-line skate manufacturers, heavily support an industry wide
organization called the IISA (International In-Line Skating
Association). The IISA has several programs like the Instructor
Certification Program, and the National Skate Patrol that are aimed at
educating skaters.  National Skate Patrol members are much like National
Ski Patrol members with obvious differences based on the specific
activity.  Members skate local parks and trails to be of assistance to
skaters and to educate beginning skaters about safety and "the rules".
The IISA also publishes "Rules of the Road" which gives tips to skaters
about how to legally, and courteously skate. The IISA also helps to
promote our "Asphalt Bites" Campaign which details the importance of
always wearing protective gear while in-line skating. 

In addition to the efforts above, all your comments listed in points "a"
through "g" are covered in the "Rules of the Road" on page 4 of our
Owners Handbook that comes with each pair of Rollerblade skates. I have
listed them below for your reference...
1.  Always wear protective gear: helmet, wrist guards, knee & elbow pads
2.  Take a lesson or learn in-line skating basics, such as controlling
speed, turning, braking, stopping before you skate
3.  Stay alert.  Always skate under control.
4.  Stay away from water, oil, debris, sand and uneven or broken
pavement
5.  Avoid areas with heavy traffic
6.  Observe all traffic regulations
7.  Skate on the right of the path.  When you pass a walker, biker or
another skater, move to the left.
8.  Never allow yourself to be towed by a motorized vehicle or bicycle.
9.  Avoid wearing headphones or anything that makes it hard to hear
10.  Never wear anything that blocks your vision, and never skate at
night or any time it is hard to see.

I hope you come to find that we are as concerned as you about people
enjoying public places and the outdoors.  In most states, skates and
bikes are wheeled vehicles that are subject to the same rules as
motorists.  Educating people to use public places takes an effort on
everyones part.

If you would like us to send a copy of our owners manual or any other
safety information, please email us with your address.

Thanks again...Skate (bike) the World!!!

Webtech5
Rollerblade Consumer Service





