From: "Declan B. McCullagh" <declan+@CMU.EDU>
Date: Sun, 10 Mar 1996 00:29:07 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Artist self censorship (Was Chinese net-censorship) Noise
In-Reply-To: <199603091145.MAA24434@utopia.hacktic.nl>
Message-ID: <0lEO9C600YUu43T39v@andrew.cmu.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Excerpts from internet.cypherpunks: 9-Mar-96 Artist self censorship
(Was.. by Anonymous@REPLAY.COM 
> Mr. Avon should think twice before commenting on self censorship does not
> exist, for that could be the difference from having the door kicked in by the
> black ninja turtles with the FBI or toning down your work.

Here's some info from http://world.std.com/~kip/ on the Angeli "child
porn" case that's going on now in Cambridge, MA. I was visiting Harvey
Silverglate's law offices last week and saw the photographs, and they're
anything but pornographic. They're essentially the same as the photos my
grandparents have of me and my cousins naked in the tub.

But that's cold comfort when you're locked up and doing time. 

-Declan


   Toni Marie Angeli, for a Harvard photography course, decided to make
   her four-year-old son Nico the subject of her final class project, The
   Innocence of a Child's Nudity. After discussing the project with her
   professor, Angeli began her project with a few shots of Nico and made
   the fatal mistake of taking her roll of film to Zona Photographic Labs
   on Rogers Street in Cambridge, Massachusetts. The Zona owners were
   "alarmed" and called the Cambridge police, who went to Zona, looked at
   contact sheets prepared by Zona without Angeli's authorization, and
   decided that the pictures were "gross." Zona and the Cambridge police
   set up a sting operation, requiring Zona employees to lie, so that the
   police could come to Zona and confront her about her "pornography"
   when she came to pick up her negatives. On November 2, Angeli went to
   Zona, accompanied by Nico and by her husband, Luke D'Ancona. An
   altercation ensued when Angeli realized why the police were there.
   Angeli was handcuffed, manhandled into a back room, beaten and choked.
   During the scuffle a lamp was knocked over, and a picture fell off the
   wall. A hollow core door was also damaged when Angeli kicked out as
   she was being escorted to the police van.
   
   Angeli was never charged with child pornography, but she was charged
   with disorderly conduct, malicious destruction of property under $250,
   and assault and battery with a dangerous weapon. (The police claimed
   that Angeli threw the lamp.). Angeli's trial began on January 24,
   1996, and a verdict was brought in on January 30. She was acquitted of
   the assault-and-battery charges, but convicted on the two other
   counts. The judge sentenced her to pay damages, to 50 hours community
   service, and to 18 months of probation. Angeli refused to sign the
   probation contract, stating that she wished to make no admission of
   guilt. The judge then sentenced her to 30 days at MCI Framingham. We
   are currently trying to raise money to pay for her appeal.
   
   It now appears that Angeli's conviction was based on perjured
   testimony from Detective William Phillips.






