From: jya@pipeline.com (John Young)
Date: Fri, 2 Aug 1996 08:42:27 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: PCC_war
Message-ID: <199608012131.VAA06059@pipe2.t2.usa.pipeline.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


   7-29-96. EBNews: 
 
   "Encryption ICs Enable Ironclad Net Security." 
 
      New encryption ICs on PCMCIA cards will be unveiled 
      imminently to allow PC users to make transactions over 
      the Internet with ironclad security. "This will open up 
      electronic commerce pervasively and launch a new market 
      for PCs," said TIS's Bill Sweet. Both National 
      Semiconductor and VLSI Technology plan to unveil 
      affordable chips shortly for PCMCIA encryption cards. 
 
      National's thumb-scan project, which aims to provide an 
      additional security factor, is a joint effort with 
      Identix. In this system, a holographic laser chip on the 
      card would image a portion of the holder's thumbprint. 
      That image will be compared with the holder's digital 
      thumbprint pattern stored on a memory chip in the card. 
 
   7-31-96. Jane's: 
 
   "Future Warfare | Rise of the robots." 
 
      A US Defense Science Board (DSB) task force is putting 
      the final touches to a study that members promise will 
      be one of the most controversial ever produced by the 
      panel. The next century adversary will aggressively use 
      offensive information warfare, rely on underground and 
      covert urban facilities and have some ability to attack 
      low earth orbiting satellites. It will require a 
      "revolution in military affairs" achieved through 
      enhanced surveillance capabilities, weapons of mass 
      destruction, thousands of inexpensive missiles, a few 
      very low observable cruise missiles, mines and diesel 
      submarines. 
 
      The only aspect of tactics and technology that everyone 
      in the DoD seems to agree on is that the most important 
      developments for warfighting over the next 10 to 20 
      years will be related to information systems. 
 
   ----- 
 
   http://jya.com/pccwar.txt  (19 kb for 2) 
 
   PCC_war 
 
 
 
 
 
 




