From: John Young <jya@pipeline.com>
Date: Mon, 22 Jan 1996 08:06:40 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: CIA Stashes
Message-ID: <199601212341.SAA02445@pipe2.nyc.pipeline.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


   Reuter has a brief story today about "80 secret U.S.
   weapons arsenals that remain scattered across Austria for
   40 years after they were hidden in case of a Soviet
   invasion" for use by resistance fighters.

   It says the CIA stockpiled the weapons without telling the
   Austrian government. The Austrian paper Kurier quotes the
   U.S. Ambassor as saying the CIA only recently informed
   Congress about the weapons stash.

   Does anyone in Austria or elsehere have more on this?

   -----

   In a related matter, on Friday C-SPAN 2 aired several hours
   of comments and proposals by intel experts before the US
   Commission on Intelligence Reform. Mephistophelean former
   NSA head Admiral Bobby Ray Inman proposed among other
   brain-wavers to reorganize the thirteen or so bloated,
   bumbling, cat-fighting intelligence agencies:

   1. Establish a new International Operations Agency to
      combine all operations units -- civilian and military --
      into one, separate from the CIA -- which he thinks has
      irretrievably lost operations credibility.

   2. CIA to do all intelligence analysis, but no collecting,
      to avoid contamination caused by "ownership of the
      data." The military to do intelligence collection and
      analysis only needed for immediate operations.

   3. FBI to do all counter-intelligence, domestic and
      international, with agents stationed overseas.

   4. Defense to do all imagery.

   5. NSA/NRO/???, though not named in open session,
      presumably would continue ELINT and SIGINT.

   6. All this will be very expensive, he roostered,
      intelligence on the cheap is worthless.

   7. The total intelligence budget to be made public but no
      further breakdown of how the the pot of gold is
      distributed to supplicants is to be confessed.

   Former Ambassador to China Tilley, a 25-year veteran of CIA
   operations, emphasized the importance of continuing Non
   Official Cover operations, which, he said, are invaluable
   very-long term penetrations. He cited those he set up in
   China as COS and then revisited fifteen years later as
   ambassador -- still ferreting deepest of demon red-commie
   secrets, he black-comicly glowered to the glazed-eyes. NOC,
   while very expensive, is crucial, he, too, parroted.

   For the full eye-opening pack of lies to replenish the pot 
of
   gold, Tilley co-conspired that a closed session was needed.

   But all the intel gold-digging experts testified to that,
   grinning malevolently, thus continuing the grand tradition
   of looting national treasuries top-secret cloaked by
   national interest.

   So, where are all those not-yet-reported CIA Non Official
   Cover stashes of gold bullion (or $100 bills) to pay the
   world-wide "resistance fighters" for illusory supremacy?












