From: Robert Hettinga <rah@shipwright.com>
Date: Mon, 25 Nov 1996 07:11:47 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: DCSB: Money Laundering -- The Headless Horseman of the Infocalypse
Message-ID: <v0300781daebf6496bc62@[206.119.69.46]>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----BY SAFEMAIL-----




                 The Digital Commerce Society of Boston

                              Presents
                           "Black Unicorn"

                         "Money Laundering --
               The Headless Horseman of the Infocalypse"



                        Tuesday, December 3, 1996
                               12 - 2 PM
                   The Downtown Harvard Club of Boston
                     One Federal Street, Boston, MA


S. L. vonBernhardt, <mailto:unicorn@schloss.li>, is an attorney, a member
of the board of directors of two European financial institutions, author
of "Practical and Legal Problems Confronting the Asset Concealer in
Relation to Offshore Financial and Corporate Entities" and a former
member of the intelligence community.  He is currently working to develop
and preserve institutions dedicated to traditional standards of financial
privacy.


One of the most disturbing products of the "war on drugs" has been the
effective criminalization of many forms of formerly legal financial
transactions.  The resulting legislation places serious burdens on
financial institutions in the form of "due diligence" requirements, as
well as building what can be an inflexible barrier before those who would
implement uncompromised digital commerce systems.  Mr. vonBernhardt will
address the legislative burdens imposed on financial institutions, the
likely impact on future systems of digital commerce, potential solutions
through regulatory arbitrage, and the practical problems facing
jurisdictions seeking to enforce regulations in the face of advanced
systems of digital commerce.

No cameras, please.


This meeting of the Digital Commerce Society of Boston will be held on
Tuesday, December 3, 1996 from 12pm - 2pm at the Downtown Branch of the
Harvard Club of Boston, One Federal Street. The price for lunch is
$27.50. This price includes lunch, room rental, and the speaker's lunch.
;-).  The Harvard Club *does* have dress code: jackets and ties for men,
and "appropriate business attire" for women.

We need to receive a company check, or money order, (or, if we *really*
know you, a personal check) payable to "The Harvard Club of Boston", by
Saturday, November 30, or you won't be on the list for lunch.  Checks
payable to anyone else but The Harvard Club of Boston will have to be
sent back.

Checks should be sent to Robert Hettinga, 44 Farquhar Street, Boston,
Massachusetts, 02131. Again, they *must* be made payable to "The Harvard
Club of Boston".

If anyone has questions, or has a problem with these arrangements (We've
had to work with glacial A/P departments more than once, for instance),
please let us know via e-mail, and we'll see if we can work something
out.

Planned speakers for DCSB are:

 January    Rodney Thayer    Applying PGP To Digital Commerce
 February   David Kaufman    1996 in Review / Predictions for 1997
 March      TBA
 April      Stewart Baker    Encryption Policy and Digital Commerce

We are actively searching for future speakers.  If you are in Boston on
the first Tuesday of the month, and you would like to make a
presentation to the Society, please send e-mail to the DCSB Program
Commmittee, care of Robert Hettinga, rah@shipwright.com .

For more information about the Digital Commerce Society of Boston, send
"info dcsb" in the body of a message to majordomo@ai.mit.edu .  If you
want to subscribe to the DCSB e-mail list, send "subscribe dcsb" in the
body of a message to majordomo@ai.mit.edu .

Looking forward to seeing you there!

Cheers,
Robert Hettinga
Moderator,
The Digital Commerce Society of Boston



-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----BY SAFEMAIL-----
Version: 1.0b4 e22

iQCVAwUBMpmydfgyLN8bw6ZVAQEvkQQAnmg8R3OF4IJpc+xVCRut8O0O9M4ZKOkG
5iD8b+XkdAZ7UTCqAQqqL8CTIlhEn9KLzRGIQbhx+V66qAbs/9nNRFMcFgmAjKy8
TuJlRNmjgF09jrr5tWgGpH9J5K1jmGqMDOc27Cr7TLMmgdTbzcQS9oUfpmoRpNns
SFShKt2JHxA=
=5/Zo
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

-----------------
Robert Hettinga (rah@shipwright.com)
e$, 44 Farquhar Street, Boston, MA 02131 USA
"The cost of anything is the foregone alternative" -- Walter Johnson
The e$ Home Page: http://www.vmeng.com/rah/






