From: "Perry E. Metzger" <perry@piermont.com>
Date: Tue, 9 Jul 1996 16:37:32 +0800
To: jfricker@vertexgroup.com (John F. Fricker)
Subject: Re: [RANT] Giving Mind Control Drugs to Children
In-Reply-To: <2.2.32.19960709050234.00c7e930@vertexgroup.com>
Message-ID: <199607090509.BAA11381@jekyll.piermont.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



John F. Fricker writes:
> you're typically vitriolic wit fails you. What's up? Lost your
> prescription?  Snide pills spill in the toilet again?

I thought I was rather on the money. Perhaps you just don't find my
vitriol funny when I direct it at you.

I'm sick of you, Tim and other people telling folks how to treat
their problems. Tim is happy saying that he thinks people's lives are
their own business, but opportunities to stick his nose into the ways
that his neighbors raise children are just peachy to him.

I'd say that the lot of you are self-satisfied busybodies, and poorly
educated ones at that.

If someone out there has their life improved by Ritalin, its not any
of your business to tell them not to take it.

There are kids out there, and adults, who have psychological problems
that are well treated if not cured by medicines. Sure, its nice to do
things "naturally" and "without drugs", but I'll point out that two
thirds or more of the people reading this message would be dead now
because of infections they forgot they had twenty years ago, or
because of indoor plumbing assuring a clean water supply, or a million
other artificial interventions into the natural course of life, which
is, naturally, death at 20 or 25 without a tooth left in your head,
cowering in a cave, surrounded by the other savages.

So, go right ahead. Discourage people from using their medicines. Make
fun of the parents of the "poor little zombie" taking Ritalin because
otherwise his life, from his own perspective, is a living hell. Heck,
TAKE AWAY HIS MEDICINE, the way Tim cheers on. Then please go home and
throw away that aspirin. The natural way to deal with a headache is to
suffer. When you break your arm, swear off medical attention and crawl
around in pain for a while. Its the "Right Thing" to do.

In any case, even if all this stuff isn't real, I'm sure you are
completely above taking drugs to help you get along in life. I'm sure
you never drink coffee to get you up in the morning, for
instance. Because if you have, you are a hypocrite. Not, of course,
that anyone here would fit that description.

Perry




