From: "Michael Peponis" <mianigand@unique.outlook.net>
Date: Sat, 10 Feb 1996 03:22:48 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: CDA Yes Votes; Collection
Message-ID: <199602091837.MAA02844@unique.outlook.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

On  8 Feb 96 at 22:10, Tim Cook wrote:

Basically here is the problem.  Like it or not, most people in the world are 
utter morons that behave more like stupid helpless heard animals than higher 
life forms.

> Besides, what makes the US Congress think they have any control over 
> a worldwide network?

Because, the are dumb as shit.  It's simple really, back to the origional 
point, most people are about as bight as a rock, they don't care about anything 
other than stuffing there pathetic faces, waching the idoit box, and passing on 
their bad genetic structure and pathetic world view.  That is all they have, 
it's not that they have anything to contribute to the world.  They are 
pathetic, since they have no life, and know that their world view hasn't got a 
prayer in a free market place of ideas, they choose to maintain it by force.

[snip]
> Support THE US Constitution...
> Vote Alexander in '96 and '00!

Vote? we are dealing with a nation of braindeads here.  Do whatever the hell 
you want and fuck the law.  Does anybody honestly believe I actually care what 
the law says I should and should not do, like I actually care what other people 
think?  I do what I want, and if somebody(s) else gets in my face, they will 
get hurt, if not perished.

Tim May made the point, there are hundreds of nations consisting of braindead 
persons.

All of them  trying to preserve their outdated way of life, I have zero respect for 
them. They want to protect there religion, or national idetity, or morals, or 
whatever, and they know that the majority of thinking people will choose there 
way of life if they could pick form all of the alternatives.

I do not vote, I live in AmeriKa, but do not consider myself and AmeriKian, I 
just happened to be born among them, and stuck living with them, not like 
anyother place is any better or worse, although their are degrees, they are all 
ran by and for brain deads.

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.6.2i

iQCVAwUBMRsj0kUffSIjnthhAQHyQwQAgBlOPBx3nTMDZFswLUbRwcvk63q6VqAc
K7Nm7NqIBUKcCng/mcblhtljkSDsUckYYB9UBJnygATeIgWux2TZwyaXYUmlQ+ux
c0kwpNaSyxbGHjfretxMthnsmz4w6eV9P2+9IbWMXbgwFhNxz0+2YPJaECX6b8cR
3ftdttHXQWo=
=5BLE
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
Regards,
Michael Peponis
PGP Key Avalible form MIT Key Server,or via finger




