From: "L-Soft list server at CNET, THE COMPUTER NETWORK (1.8b)"              <LISTSERV@DISPATCH.CNET.COM>
Date: Wed, 27 Nov 1996 13:51:14 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Your request to sign off the DISPATCH list
Message-ID: <199611272151.NAA17141@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Wed, 27 Nov 1996 13:49:02


Hi,

If you're reading this message, then you  must have tried to reply to the
Digital Dispatch  or to one  of the  Shareware Dispatches. These  are all
read-only mailing lists.

If you  are trying to subscribe  or unsubscribe to a  Shareware Dispatch,
please follow  the instructions given  near the  end of your  most recent
dispatch, the procedure for eash list is slightly different.

If you're trying to subscribe or  unsubscribe, to Digital Dispatch, or if
you have changed  email addresses and would like to  receive mail at your
new address, please follow these instructions exactly:

1. To unsubscribe, send a message to dispatch@cnet.com with the following
in the body:

unsubscribe me@somewhere.com

For example unsubscribe janedoe@whatsup.com

Your name will be automatically be dropped from our distribution list.

2. To  subscribe a  new email  address in the  case of  a change,  send a
message from the account that  you wish to subscribe to dispatch@cnet.com
with the following in the body:

subscribe me@somewhere.com

For example subscribe janedoe@whatsup.com

Your name  will be automatically be  added to our distribution  list, and
you'll start receiving Digital Dispatch the very next week.

3. If  you have previously  attempted to unsubscribe without  success you
may have several usernames or aliases, or perhaps you're having your mail
forwarded from one machine to another. If this is the case, please follow
the instructions in the email message  you received from the "L-Soft list
server at C|NET: the computer network (1.8b)".

4.  If you  any questions  which  are not  answered here,  please send  a
message to support@cnet.com


Thanks for writing.

c|net's support staff-






