From: "Vladimir Z. Nuri" <vznuri@netcom.com>
Date: Tue, 21 May 1996 15:24:59 +0800
To: jf_avon@citenet.net
Subject: Re: (Fwd) Re: TCM: mafia as a paradigm for cyberspace
In-Reply-To: <9605200337.AA02122@cti02.citenet.net>
Message-ID: <199605201934.MAA28228@netcom20.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Jean-Francois Avon appears to be a new vocal proponent for Jim Bell's
"assassination politics". he quotes my private mail in his
latest sniveling defense.

>Second, everybody like Jim Bell who is pushing the AP scheme is doing
>so on ethical basis: that the coercion the government imposes on to
>the individuals by regulations, and guns backed taxation justifies the
>killings.  I have to see yet any cypherpunks who seems to agree with
>AP that envision another use than govt control.

right, and Hitler didn't have any other use for his government other
than to bring utopia to the masses, and used all the ovens for cooking
pizzas (after all, what else could an oven be used for?!?!?).

the above sentence I find absolutely abhorrent: it justifies killing,
not merely because of the effect (the sort of "ends-justifies-the-means"
argument used by most here), but that in addition it is 
supposedly "ethical". ethical?!?!? for g*d's sakes, promote your
depraved scheme under any other heading, but do not claim it is
"ethical" unless you want to further demonstrate how far from
morality you have twisted your brain.

the assassination politics is quite Hitleresque at its root.
"kill our enemies, and everything will be better. it is our enemies
that are the root of all evil in the world. extinguish them, and
you solve all problems automatically"

such is the total moral perversion of the thinking behind 
"assassination politics". most of the adherents work from the 
following argument, nicely summarized by JFA above:

1. the government is corrupt

2. therefore, it is okay to kill people who further that corruption.

wow, what brilliant logic. I must admit it proves to be superior to
that embodied by any second grader, a high accomplishment for its
proponents.

there is a trite saying, "two wrongs do not make a right" (trite
because most have mastered the simple truth of it in their pre-teen
years). a concept not grasped by some second-graders. some 
require a lifetime of lessons to comprehend it in the end..

I'm very disappointed that others have not chased Assassination
Politics proponents to take their trash somewhere else. of course
the real situation is that those that started this list have
sympathies for this kind of thinking, so no such thing will happen.

to Jim Bell and Avon: please read Machiavelli. read about ancient
assassination clubs and the history of bloody politics. if you want
to seriously further your ideas, start a web site with ample 
historical research. your ideas are not new whatsoever. if you
really wish to become masters of assassination abilities, study
carefully the errors of those who have come before you. write
a long treatise with lots of footnotes to past assassination
difficulties and how you would advance past them. I tell
you flat out that any respectable assassin would be quite embarrassed
to be associated with you at the moment because of your arrogance
and ignorance.

I wish you the best of luck <g>





