From: avatar@mindspring.com
Date: Sun, 11 Feb 1996 04:30:27 +0800
To: Adam Shostack <adam@lighthouse.homeport.org>
Subject: Re: Yeah, Yeah But what are we gonna do!
Message-ID: <199602101947.OAA25312@borg.mindspring.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


At 01:17 PM 2/10/96 -0500, you wrote:
>Spam beget filters.
>
>Most congresscritters delete email from people other than their
>constituents already.
>
>Adam
>


Untrue most of them have responded to my correspondence.
For example, I live in Atlanta Ga. and Senator Bradley is a representative
of New Jersey. Here is his letter. By the way I have many more from
many other members of both House and Senate.
					              
     Thank you for contacting me to express your views concerning
     the Communications Decency Act of 1995, which was recently passed as 
     part of S. 652, the Telecommunications Act of 1995.  I greatly 
     appreciated the opportunity to review your thoughts on this issue.
     
          Although the advances being made in our nation's information
     and communications network are revolutionary and welcome, they also 
     provide openings for individuals to transmit obscene materials to 
     children and to lure children.  Throughout my career in the U.S. 
     Senate, I have consistently encouraged the recording industry and the 
     television industry to limit explicit violence and sex on television.  
     Given the widespread growth of information networks, I supported the 
     Communications Decency Act as a means to curtail children's exposure 
     to offensive materials and to give parents some control over the 
     things their children see and hear.
     
          While I supported this amendment because I believe there is a
     need for some safeguards against obscenity, I do have some concerns 
     about the implementation of this provision, if it becomes law. There 
     should be a distinction between indecent and obscene material, as 
     there is in other relevant laws.  Furthermore, this particular 
     amendment does not adequately reflect the unique nature of the 
     Internet, in which information crosses many computers and access 
     points before reaching the user.  Finally, I was disappointed that the 
     Senate did not have an opportunity to consider an alternative proposal 
     suggested by Senator Leahy.  This measure would have provided more 
     safeguards to ensure that First Amendment rights were preserved, but 
     still would have accomplished the overall objective of the adopted 
     version. 
     
          Determining who should be held responsible for disseminating
     obscene material may be difficult.  I am concerned that this could 
     lead to an overall chilling effect on online communication as users 
     fear that they may be held responsible for material they did not 
     originate.
     
          Please be assured that I will keep your views in mind as the
     joint House-Senate conference committee attempts to reconcile the 
     differences between the two versions of the Telecommunications Act of 
     1995. 
     
          Again, thank you for contacting me to share your views.  I
     hope to hear from you again in the near future.
     
          Best wishes.
      
     
                                     Senator Bill Bradley
                                     Washington, DC 20510
                                     (202)224-3224
>
Charles Donald Smith Jr.

||The government  is my shepherd I need not work. It alloweth me to lie
 down on a good job. It leadeth me beside stilled factories. It destroyeth
 my initiative. It leadeth me in the path of a parasite for politics sake. YEA,
 though I walk through the valley of laziness and deficet spending I shall
 fear no evil, for the government is with me. It prepareth an economic utopia
 for me by appropriating the earnings of my grandchildren. It filleth my head
 with false security. My inefficiency runeth over. Surely, the government 
should care for me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in a fools paradise
forever.................AMEN!   || nuke'm if ya got'em||





