From: "George A. Stathis" <hyperlex@hol.gr> (by way of "George A. Stathis" <hyperlex@prometheus.hol.gr>)
Date: Mon, 18 Nov 1996 15:55:12 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: REQUESTING INFORMATION :-)
Message-ID: <199611190353.BAA09293@prometheus.hol.gr>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


f'knights, [hee hee]  (as in c'punks)!!! ROTFL

After the amusing invasion of Sandy-the-cowboy in his attempt
to smash open the already open doors of a virtual (i.e. non-existent)
salloon...  (in the Freedom-Knights list)

(which is a waste of time anyway to watch his show anyway)...
:-)


I REQUEST INFORMATION on those people who compile "Unemployability
Lists" in the USA, as well as ANY other information on this issue.

Senator McCarthy managed to terrorize the entire U.S.A. some decades
ago with such lists (on real paper rather than on computer files).

The "Return to NeoMcCarthyanism" would make an _excellent_ story for
the Greek Newspaper "Eleftherotypia", and some bright young Greek
journalist could seize the opportunity perhaps even for a Headline
Story. Therefore, I include in the recipient list the Greek Newspaper's
Internet Supplement address, and... rub my hands, waiting for your
replies, folks. :-)


We Greeks would like ALL the names of the people who act as "Informers"
of companies denouncing those unfortunate Americans who are doomed
to unemployment. We plan to give these names to all our friends, so
as to warn them WHO to avoid during our summer holidays in Greek
Islands.


Thank you
George A. Stathis
(former columnist in "PC Master" magazine, Athens Greece -1990).

P.S. I wrote each month's MAIN article at the time, and also the monthly
     "A.I." program. I am not active in journalism at the moment, which
     is why someone else is welcome to use the ensuing information.

P.S. TRUST GREEKS. We hold a World Copyright on Freedom of Thought for
     2.500 years or more, and we even donated it to the Public Domain! :-)

     






