From: Mixmaster <mixmaster@remail.obscura.com>
Date: Thu, 6 Jun 1996 12:44:56 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: OECD on Crypto
Message-ID: <199606051722.KAA06376@sirius.infonex.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


[haven't seen this on cypherpunks yet]

OECD NEWS RELEASE - Paris, 10 May 1996 

OECD EXPERTS BEGIN DRAFTING CRYPTOGRAPHY GUIDELINES 

Cryptography experts from OECD countries have begun drafting a
proposal for OECD Cryptography Policy Guidelines that governments can
use as a guide to formulate their national policies on encryption. 

Many governments are under pressure within their own countries to
develop a national position on cryptography, which is used in computer
technology to protect everything from product designs to health and
tax records and global correspondence. But the needs of global
technologies and applications require an international --rather than a
strictly national -- approach to policymaking. The fast-paced
development of the Global Information Infrastructure adds an element
of urgency.

The business community, individuals and national security and law enforcement
agencies are all pressing for encryption guidelines and the OECD will strive to
reflect the legitimate interests of all these groups as it drafts Guidelines. 

The private sector is closely involved in drafting the Guidelines,
with business representatives from the Business and Industry Advisory
Committee (BIAC) participating at the meeting. 

The OECD meeting, which took place on 8 May, was hosted by the US
Department of State in Washington DC. It was held immediately after a
Second Business Government Forum on Global Cryptography Policy in
Washington DC on 7 May, which was cosponsored by the OECD, the 
International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) and the Business and Industry Advisory
Committee (BIAC) to the OECD. Two similar conferences took place in Paris in
December, when OECD countries and business representatives met for the
first time to discuss international cryptography policy. 

The process of drafting the OECD Cryptography Policy Guidelines will
continue at an experts meeting in June and is due for completion in
early 1997.

For further information, please contact Ms. Hiroko Kamata, OECD 
Directorate for Science, 
Technology and Industry (tel. 331 45 24 80 04 - fax. 331 45 24 93 32 - 
e-mail. hiroko.kamata@oecd.org).








