From: Robert Hettinga <rah@shipwright.com>
Date: Thu, 10 Oct 1996 13:47:44 -0700 (PDT)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: DCSB: The Election and Digital Commerce Agenda
Message-ID: <v03007801ae830e386c67@[206.119.69.46]>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----BY SAFEMAIL-----

                 The Digital Commerce Society of Boston

                               Presents
                          Philip S. Corwin,
                              Principal,
                    Federal Legislative Associates

                   "The Impact of the 1996 Election
                   on Washington's ECommerce Agenda"



                        Tuesday, November 5, 1996
                               12 - 2 PM
                   The Downtown Harvard Club of Boston
                     One Federal Street, Boston, MA




Mr. Corwin is a Principal of Federal Legislative Associates (FLA), a
Washington, DC government relations firm whose clients include
organizations involved with such issues as internet payments security,
computer crime, encryption export restrictions, and the unauthorized
distribution of copyrighted material over the Internet. He has been
involved in legislative activities for twenty years, including five
years on the U.S. Senate's professional staff. Immediately prior to
joining FLA he served as Director and Counsel for Operations, Retail
Banking, and Risk Management for the American Bankers Association, where
his portfolio included payments system policy, bank cards, consumer
compliance, and money laundering.  He is Official Reporter of the
American Bar Association's Task Force on Regulatory Barriers, Committee
on the Law of Commerce in Cyberspace. His articles on a broad range of
financial system topics have been published in numerous publications
here and abroad, including American Banker's Future Banking. He has
testified before Congress and has been interviewed on such programs as
the MacNeil/Lehrer Newshour, The Wall Street Journal Report, CNN
Newsmaker, and CNBC Capitol Gains.

"The Impact of the 1996 Election on Washington's ECommerce Agenda" will
discuss the myriad federal legislative and regulatory initiatives which
will shape the legal infrastructure for ECommerce. In particular, it
will focus on Internet payments and digital value: the Federal Reserve
and FDIC regulatory initiatives on stored value cards; money laundering;
digital counterfeiting and financial system safety and soundness;
taxation of Internet commerce; and the monetary policy implications of
electronic free banking in competition with central banking. Mr. Corwin
will also discuss the 104th Congress' attention to encryption export
standards, Internet copyright protection, Internet privacy, and computer
security and espionage, as well as general Congressional oversight of
electronic banking. Finally, He will make some predictions about the
disposition of these and other matters in the next Congress.



This meeting of the Digital Commerce Society of Boston will be held on
Tuesday, November 5, 1996 from 12pm - 2pm at the Downtown Branch of the
Harvard Club of Boston, One Federal Street. The price for lunch is
$27.50. This price includes lunch, room rental, and the speaker's lunch.
;-).  The Harvard Club *does* have dress code: jackets and ties for men,
and "appropriate business attire" for women.

We need to receive a company check, or money order, (or, if we *really*
know you, a personal check) payable to "The Harvard Club of Boston", by
Saturday, November 2, or you won't be on the list for lunch.  Checks
payable to anyone else but The Harvard Club of Boston will have to be
sent back.

Checks should be sent to Robert Hettinga, 44 Farquhar Street, Boston,
Massachusetts, 02131. Again, they *must* be made payable to "The Harvard
Club of Boston".

If anyone has questions, or has a problem with these arrangements (We've
had to work with glacial A/P departments more than once, for instance),
please let us know via e-mail, and we'll see if we can work something
out.

Planned speakers for DCSB are:

 December  "Black Unicorn"   Money Laundering: The Headless Horseman
                               of the Infocalypse
 January    TBA              1996 in Review / Predictions for 1997
 February   Rodney Thayer    Applying PGP To Digital Commerce

We are actively searching for future speakers.  If you are in Boston on
the first Tuesday of the month, and you would like to make a
presentation to the Society, please send e-mail to the DCSB Program
Commmittee, care of Robert Hettinga, rah@shipwright.com .

For more information about the Digital Commerce Society of Boston, send
"info dcsb" in the body of a message to majordomo@ai.mit.edu .  If you
want to subscribe to the DCSB e-mail list, send "subscribe dcsb" in the
body of a message to majordomo@ai.mit.edu .

Looking forward to seeing you there!

Cheers,
Robert Hettinga
Moderator,
The Digital Commerce Society of Boston




-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----BY SAFEMAIL-----
Version: 1.0b3

iQCVAwUBMl1dH/gyLN8bw6ZVAQG3MQP8CndlQ87Smpwjpky4o08vNLzr24lURKm4
M1lEFKTXuscXwb4wLS+0T003jbYqUWpSlwyzodpkogVc0avSTxMKwl1o9VVScgjf
AjWFBmJ3/43i/5einwqRPR0csfonGznoT5oWq+9G0R1HrtYkrTSVI5BctdK+W+zV
bJGqAanUcp8=
=PEH4
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

-----------------
Robert Hettinga (rah@shipwright.com)
e$, 44 Farquhar Street, Boston, MA 02131 USA
"The cost of anything is the foregone alternative" -- Walter Johnson
The e$ Home Page: http://www.vmeng.com/rah/






