From: John Young <jya@pipeline.com>
Date: Sat, 12 Oct 1996 08:42:33 -0700 (PDT)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Intel RICO Billed
Message-ID: <1.5.4.16.19961012154043.2d97cf66@pop.pipeline.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


   The Washington Post, October 12, 1996, p. A6.


   Clinton Approves Intelligence Spending Rise

      Bill Is Also Signed to Make Theft of Trade Secrets a
      Federal Crime


   President Clinton signed a bill yesterday that boosts
   intelligence agency spending and another that makes theft
   of trade secrets a federal crime.

   Clinton said he signed the 1997 Intelligence Authorization
   Act despite objections to three provisions, including one
   that establishes three new assistant directors of central
   intelligence under CIA Director John M. Deutch.

   Although the nation's intelligence budget is an official
   secret, it is reported to total about $30 billion for the
   1997 fiscal year, up 4.9 percent from 1996.

   In a statement, Clinton said he would support Deutch in
   asking the next Congress to repeal the provision that
   created assistant directors for intelligence collection,
   analysis and administration. "I share his concern that
   these provisions will add another layer of positions
   requiring Senate confirmation" without a corresponding
   increase in the CIA director's authority to manage the
   intelligence agencies, Clinton said.

   The bill: 

   + Gives the FBI power to subpoena local telephone records.

   + Authorizes the CIA and the National Security Agency to
   collect data on foreign citizens abroad for U.S.
   investigations.

   + Requires Senate confirmation of the CIA's general
   counsel. That is meant to prevent political influence over
   a position designed to block illegal covert operations.

   + Prohibits federal employment of senior intelligence
   officials for three years after their departure from
   government.

   It also prohibits the CIA from using American journalists
   as spies. But the restriction could be waived in
   extraordinary circumstances and the CIA still could have
   its agents pose as journalists. The bill would not prohibit
   journalists who choose to provide information from doing
   so.

   Clinton also signed into law the Economic Espionage Act of
   1996, saying it strengthens protections against theft or
   misuse of proprietary business information. "It will help
   us crack down on acts like software piracy and copyright
   infringement that cost American businesses billions of
   dollars in lost revenues," he said. The law makes the theft
   of trade secrets a federal crime and provides financial
   penalties and prison sentences for specific acts of
   economic espionage. It also preserves the confidentiality
   of trade secrets in court proceedings.

   Clinton said the measure also eliminates gaps in the
   criminal laws that cover attacks against computers and the
   information they contain.

   [End]












