From: wichita@cyberstation.net
Date: Sat, 23 Nov 1996 00:51:59 -0800 (PST)
To: paul@fatmans.demon.co.uk
Subject: Q.E.D |= Montgolfiering + Inbongis + Fermented Pear Juice + AGA
In-Reply-To: <848071227.510148.0@fatmans.demon.co.uk>
Message-ID: <Pine.BSI.3.95.961122235129.7786A-100000@citrine.cyberstation.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain




On Thu, 14 Nov 1996 paul@fatmans.demon.co.uk wrote:

> 
> >          Since the IPG algorithm is impregnable, obviously no
> >          individual, or collection of individuals, from said
> >          Universities, the Cypherpunks, or the Coderpunks has been
> >          able to crack the system. Of course, this inability to do the
> >          impossible applies not only to the present but for all time,
> >          for all eternity."
> 
> 
> Look, 
> 
> do you seriously think that university researchers, professors and 
> data security consultants have nothing better to do with their time 
> than look at your pathetic collection of cryptographic stocking 
> fillers.
> 
Several of them are. And if I am to believe your private
postings of the past, you have tried but failed, and are thusly
understandably frustrated.  

> I thought you had finally gone away when I saw no posts from you for 
> about a week. I am depressed beyond belief to see you have returned 
> to interrupt the flow of discussion.... Leave and never return...
> 
Sorry about that old chap, but the last Englishmen that had the power
to command us here in the States was George III, and he was a mad
ignorant lunatic Englishman like you. I am not as adept at telling you off
as AGA,  but obviously you insignificant English pawns think that that
you still rule the world. In your ignorance, you are not aware but here in
the United States we have certain rights, that you parasites, not all but
those like you,  in the United Kingdom can no longer deprive us of. Try
reading Thomas Jefferson, Patrick Henry, Thomas Paine, and hundreds of
others. We are no longer yours to command, Dei Gratita.   

Break my system and I will gladly crawl back into the hole that you
somehow think I have emerged from. Until that time, which
thus obviously means forever, or at least without definable limits, you
may expect me to continue to make postings as I may see fit, or respond to
your senseless jabberwocky. You and some of the other  cypherpunks,
coderpunks are cryptographic quacks, you read Shannon and Schenier, and
hang out shingle as a cryptographic expert, when you have no knowledge of
the subject whatsoever. You need to be exposed as the quack you are. 

Of course, the real problem is that you, cannot break my system, 
you are clueless about how to do that and you know it. You
have never broken any significant crypto system and you never will because 
you do not know how. You are a great pretentious turkey, that flaps
his wings and spreads all kinds of crappy gobbledegook because that is
all they know how to do. Every forum like this has their flocks of those 
turkeys, like you, because it puffs up their hyperdeflated ego. 

As to your other postings alleging a break, you know that is not true.
You, John and Adam posted a bunch of crap. Even Perry, has given up
trying to perpetuate that factoid. Even the alleged break was not a
system break, it might have been used to break an individual messages, 
or some messages but that was not the algorithm and you know it. You are a
practioner of Gimcrackery and everyone knows it, including you. 

There are a lot of serious professional people on the Cypherpunks and
Coderpunks lists, but you are certainly not among them. With respect to
you and a few others, I might paraphrase one of your own, one who I
respect enormously as does most other Americans, that being Winston
Churchill. Paraphrasing Sir Winston, "Never have so few, said so much and 
thought they had done so much, when in fact they had said nothing and
done nothing except to splutter baneful balderdash."  

You individually, and as a member of the crytographic claque, have done
enough unwarranted inbongis to  remind me of Rousseau words:

         "The less reasonable a cult is, the more men seek to
                     establish it by force."

Or better still and more succinct, another of your own, Sir Alfred North
Whitehead, another Englishman that I admire, who said:

         "There is no greater hinderance to the progress of thought 
               than an attitude of irritated party-spirit." 
            
Read the postings made in response to my postings. From the beginning,
they have invoked an irritated party-spirit, fortunately not of the
many but only the few of the lunatic fringe of the Cypherpunks -
Coderpunks, like you. 

Another Englishmen, Alexander Pope in verse said it well too:

           "The ruling passion, be it what it will
            The ruling passion conquers reason still."

Your, and the lunatic fringe's ruling passion that you know it all, that
you are right and that makes it right is more of your Delphic
Neanderthal thinking. "Sans doubte," your need for rinforzando dictums is
obviously results from the fact that you are absolutely 
illuminiferous.  


> I truly have never hear anyone speak as much bollocks as you in my 
> entire life, even those who have studied the art for many years...
> 
I do not know what you have never hear, but I have heard and read enough
of your sententious pap to realize that you do not know what you are
writing about. Your ignorance is sublime, you are not only dumb, and
dumber, but you are obviously the dumbest of the dumb with possibly the
exception of fermented pear juice, and with the cypherpunk - coderpunk
imperium, that is saying a lot.  

Lead on McPuff(ery),

With the kindest personal regards,

Don Wood 








