From: JonWienk@ix.netcom.com
Date: Mon, 22 Jul 1996 14:52:50 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Responding to Pre-dawn Unannounced Ninja Raids
In-Reply-To: <2.2.16.19960722004904.1a3fece0@postoffice.worldnet.att.net>
Message-ID: <199607220407.VAA18687@dfw-ix10.ix.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


On Sun, 21 Jul 1996, Llywarch Hen <ecgwulf@postoffice.worldnet.att.net> wrote:
[snip]
>I'd certainly agree with that, but would like to add that an unloaded gun is
>of no use and a gun in the nightstand or in the trunk of your car is also of
>no use. For all cases other than home intrusion, the gun has to be worn -- I
>recommend a shoulder holster. In the case of home intrusion, one can hope
>that the intruder has no desire to be successful and permits you to get the
>drop on him. Perhaps he'll slam the refrigerator door allowing you to fumble
>around under your pillow for your weapon. I know of people who have walked
>out of museums with paintings trailing alarm wires -- so let's hope our
>intruder is an amateur and best of all is scared off by some phony security
>signs, fake alarm wires, etc.

If you lock your doors and windows, forced entry generally becomes a noisy, 
somewhat time-consuming process that allows anyone not in a recreational drug 
induced stupor or coma sufficient time to pull a pistol out of their shoulder 
holster (or nightstand drawer, etc.) and pull the hammer back.  (2-3 seconds is 
all I need!)

>In these parts most guns seemed to be used by the temporarily depressed
>teenaged children of gun owners.

In the majority of cases, (although the margin is on the decline) when an armed 
homeowner confronts a burglar, the burglar runs like projectile diarrhea for the 
nearest exit, and no shots are fired.  However, these incidents are not counted 
as firearms "use", under current crime statistic collection methodology.  Many 
of these incidents are not reported, especially in areas where gun ownership is 
not approved by the authorities.  Furthermore, if your Cousin Vinnie the crack 
addict breaks into your house at 0300, attempts to rob you at knifepoint, and 
you force-feed him half a dozen jacketed hollow points for his trouble, the 
incident will usually be put in the same statistical category as the "crazed 
husband shoots wife, children, 11 neighbors, and 6 police officers" tragedies, 
even though you may never be charged with anything.  Most "studies" of crime 
statistics come from gun control advocacy groups, and are suitable primarily for 
lining the bottoms of birdcages.

>Now for street wear I strongly recommend a variety of loads. Probably my
>favorite is a reversed semi-wadcutter. This puppy is extremely inaccurate
>since it starts tumbling as it leaves the barrel. At extremely close ranges
>it'll tear up some flesh and further out it'll walk nastily through outer
>clothing completely wrecking it for formal wear and continue through enough
>skin to be damaging. Low on kinetic energy, it will however transfer its
>entire momentum where it counts. A semi-automatic will not properly feed
>these, so you gotta be traditional if you are of the big clip persuasion.

I have $10 US that says that this idiot has never fired a gun is his life.  
Furthermore, it is obvious he has no clue when it comes to bullet/target 
interaction.  A "reversed semi-wadcutter" is going to stay in its original shape 
(for the most part), which will tend to make it over-penetrate, wasting kinetic 
energy and endangering people behind the target.  Moreover, anyone who 
intentionally uses an inaccurate load is a fool--missed shots waste ammo, have 
no effect on the target, and run a significant risk of endangering innocent 
people.  A hollow point or Glaser is a much better option.

Jonathan Wienke

"1935 will go down in history! For the first time a civilized nation has full 
gun registration! Our streets will be safer, our police more efficient, and the 
world will follow our lead in the future!"
--Adolf Hitler

"46.  The U.S. government declares a ban on the possession, sale, 
transportation, and transfer of all non-sporting firearms. ...Consider the 
following statement:  I would fire upon U.S. citizens who refuse or resist 
confiscation of firearms banned by the U.S. government."
--The 29 Palms Combat Arms Survey  
http://www.ksfo560.com/Personalities/Palms.htm

1935 Germany = 1996 U.S.?

Key fingerprint =  30 F9 85 7F D2 75 4B C6  BC 79 87 3D 99 21 50 CB





