From: Hallam-Baker <hallam@ai.mit.edu>
Date: Sun, 11 Aug 1996 08:17:55 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Anguilla Censors taxBomber ..... ??
In-Reply-To: <4uimq2$n4n@life.ai.mit.edu>
Message-ID: <320D01F1.41C6@ai.mit.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Anonymous wrote:
> 
> As of immediately, the "taxBomber's Site & Internet Offshore Center"
> has been pulled by our Anguilla provider and will remain inaccessible
> for a few days.


Before people get too carried away the site is still up and appears
to have been up all along. Of course it would be a convenient ploy
to advertise a site of this type by claiming to have been censored.


I had a look at their wares and was not impressed. The diplomatic
passport and "second passport" offers are somewhat pricey at
$10 to $20K. Note that a diplomatic passport does not convey any
status or privileges unless the holders credentials have been 
accepted by host state. "non-revenue producing investments" will
be familliar to anyone who has traded extensively in that area. 

Note that no country in the world offers such passports openly, to
do so would be contrary to a number of international conventions. 

There has been the long running case of the South African immigration
laws which meant that whites used to get citizenship whether they 
wanted it or not after a stay of about six months. Its possible that
it hasn't been repealed. 

Note that the statement that the trade is illegal is countered by
the assertion that the documents are genuine. Its very easy to obtain
genuine documents if the right bribes are paid. That does not make
a scheme legal. 


The various licenses etc appear to be avaliable on condition that you
provide them with appropriate statements as to eligibility. If you
apply for the student's card in this way and you are not a student 
you are committing fraud. If you are willing to do that you can get
a student ID card much more easily - go to any branch of British 
Rail in the UK and you can have one for a few quid.


Similarly the various other "offers" tend to be priced rather high. If
you know what the card is being offered you can probably get it legit
much cheaper.  

The piece de resistance is the offer of an EU driving license to 
peoplke from Ireland, Netherlands etc for only $680. Its the same
goddam license! Just go to your embassy and ask them to replace your
current license for an EU pink 'un.


All in all stay well clear.


		Phill




