From: tcmay@got.net (Timothy C. May)
Date: Thu, 7 Mar 1996 22:39:34 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Another Motivation for the CDA
Message-ID: <ad62728b1a0210049ce9@[205.199.118.202]>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Given that Sen. Fineswine is one of the strongest supporters of gun
confiscation, and that she had this to say about the Telecom Bill:

"Sen. Feinstein (D-CA)
Mrs. Feinstein: Mr. President, I rise in support of the conference
report for the Telecommunications Act of 1995. This legislation
establishes real progress on important issues and I am pleased to
provide my support.

Senator Exon's provisions to control access to indecent materials will
require the operators of computer networks, like America Online, to
screen out indecent materials for children."

I think we need to look at another motive, or at least another effect, of
the CDA's felonization of "indecent" speech (uttering the words "fuck" or
"shit," or doing a large number of other such things, where any minor could
possibly see these words, is a felony. Not a misdemeanor, a _felony_.

No felon may own a gun legally in California, for some period of time after
conviction. I presume similar laws apply in other states. (Of course, a lot
of real criminals own all sorts of guns, but at least the "indecent
speakers" will have their existing guns removed from them and will be
unable to buy new ones for some number of years after their convictions.)

Therefore, one think to think about is that a felony conviction for
violation of the CDA will result in one being disarmed (of the ones they
know about). Duncan Frissell frequently regales us with tales of how he has
made himself "judgment-proof." More power to him, but it doesn't make me
feel any better.

Fineswine, Schroeder, and similar such vermin have probably figured out
that by felonizing dirty words they have another tool to use in the
disarming of America. When nearly everyone is a criminal, in the eyes of
the law, then the populace is well and truly under their thumbs.

The good news is that I can probably get off of jury duty pretty simply by
saying "But I'm a felon." (Even if they ask for details, about my
conviction, merely by explaining why I answered this way I'll doubtless be
excused.) Of course, I haven't been called for jury duty and actually had
to report for selection since 1973, so I must be in their file of
Undesirables already.

--Tim May, a fucking felon

Boycott "Big Brother Inside" software!
We got computers, we're tapping phone lines, we know that that ain't allowed.
---------:---------:---------:---------:---------:---------:---------:----
Timothy C. May              | Crypto Anarchy: encryption, digital money,
tcmay@got.net  408-728-0152 | anonymous networks, digital pseudonyms, zero
W.A.S.T.E.: Corralitos, CA  | knowledge, reputations, information markets,
Higher Power: 2^756839 - 1  | black markets, collapse of governments.
"National borders aren't even speed bumps on the information superhighway."








