From: "Mark Rosen" <mrosen@peganet.com>
Date: Wed, 1 Jan 1997 20:22:48 -0800 (PST)
To: <cypherpunks@toad.com>
Subject: Kremlin v1.04
Message-ID: <199701020422.XAA29384@mercury.peganet.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


	I'm sure you all remember my program, Very Good Privacy, and have been
waiting for the release of the new version with bated breath. Well, it's
finally here! Only, after being contacted by PGP, Inc. regarding a possible
trademark violation, I've changed its name to Kremlin. Remember: it's like
an iron curtain for your data.
	The new version still uses the same algorithms. The algorithms can be
grouped into three categories: ASCII and Vigenere, which give little
security, but are extremely fast, DES, NewDES, and Safer SK-128, which will
protect against all but the most well-funded adversaries, and Blowfish,
IDEA, and RC4, which are perhaps the most secure algorithms available
today. The key-size of the algorithms ranges from 64-bits (actually
56-bits) in DES to 128-bits in IDEA, NewDES, and Safer SK-128, and infinite
length in ASCII, Blowfish (up to 448-bits), RC4, and Vigenere. If the "Hash
Passkey" option is checked, then the passkeys are hashed with a 64-bit
per-source file salt using SHA1 to form a 160-bit passkey; extra bits not
used by the fixed-length algorithms are discarded. Without the "Hash
Passkey" option checked, the passkey is only XORed with the salt and
retains its original size. If the "Encrypt Headers" option is checked, then
the filename and file size of the files are encrypted, giving an attacker
no information about the source files.
	Once the files have been encrypted, you have the option of securely
deleting them by overwriting them a user-definable number of times with
random data; the most secure encryption algorithm in the world is useless
if the plaintext is left unsecured on the hard drive. All of this is done
through one simple dialog box. To launch Kremlin, just drag a file or
directory (or a combination of files or directories) onto the Encrypt icon
on the Windows 95 desktop. To decrypt a file, just double-click on it and
enter the passkey; no unwieldy tabbed dialog boxes or file directory
navigation boxes. Plus, as a added bonus, anyone who orders 10 or more
copies of Kremlin will receive a can of Spam (TM) for free!

For more information on Kremlin, e-mail mrosen@peganet.com
To download Kremlin, go to:
http://www.geocities.com/SiliconValley/Pines/2690




