From: mrm@netcom.com (Marianne Mueller)
Date: Sun, 21 Jan 1996 04:55:08 +0800
To: cypherpunks-announce@toad.com
Subject: Jan 27 special Bay Area CA mtg
Message-ID: <199601200224.SAA07329@netcom20.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Out-of-band cypherpunk meeting
Saturday Jan 27
12 noon - 3 p.m.
Sparcy's cafeteria, B21, Sun Microsystems, Mountain View, California

The reason to call a special half-meeting on January 27th is that a
producer/videographer for PBS would like to film a discussion among
cypherpunks about 1st amendment issues, for a PBS show named "Freedom
Speaks."

The show airs nationally on PBS.  In San Francisco, currently on KMPT
Thursdays at 5 p.m., and starting in March, on KQED.

The producer is Roger Masterton and he describes his goals like so:
(the parts in between [] are my paraphrasing of what he said, for
brevity)

	I am currently working on the story for a program we
	will tape in 2 weeks about Cryptography, focusing on the
	Free Speech aspect as well as the governments attempt to limit
	export of programs.
	...
	The reason that I'm writing to you is that we would like to
	shoot a cypherpunks meeting as a way of introducing the
	[program.]

	[We want to film cypherpunks talking on camera] about the need
	for cryptograpy and the government's attempt to control access.  
	...

I talked with him on the phone.  He is affiliated with a group known
as the Freedom Forum in Arlington, VA, which is non-partisan and
non-profit.

I said, sure, I'd be glad to reserve the room and call for a meeting,
but that it would be up to the local Bay Area cypherpunk community as
to whether or not folks could make this meeting.

I also mentioned that a number of us have had mixed experiences with
the media, and that we're pretty cynical about being presented fairly.
I told him a several of us have endured the problem of spending all
day in some video shoot, only to have 10 seconds of out-of-context
inflammatory sound byte show up on the eventual program.

If you want to, it would help me to know if you think you can make the
meeting on Jan 27th, so we have some idea how long to wait for people
to show up before starting the "official" agenda.

Marianne
mrm@eng.sun.com
mrm@netcom.com

p.s. directions to B21 of Sun: 

Take 101 south to Amphitheater Parkway.  Turn left at the light at the
bottom of the exit ramp onto Charleston.  (This street is also known
as Garcia.)  After about 1/3 mile, turn right onto the first real side
street.  In about 2 long city blocks, you'll see big purple and white
signs for B21 of Sun.  The meeting is held in the cafeteria.  This
time I'll bring blank foils and pens.  :-) 





