From: peer@alpha.c2.org (Peer Gynt)
Date: Sat, 27 Jan 1996 09:45:54 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Nym use in the real world
Message-ID: <199601270035.QAA06231@infinity.c2.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

>  With the coming Internet restrictions and growing use of the
>  net by LEAs, it's become obvious to me that I shouldn't post
>  messages with my real name.

My reasons for experimenting with nymdom are somewhat different.  I
have no intentions of using my nym for anything that I would not do
using my True Name.  I see it more as a tool for segmenting the
knowledge the outside world has about me.  With the expansion of
information ubiquity and easy access to powerful search tools, nyms
become a welcome tool to foil the dossier builders.

>  1. reputation.  My nym will need to build it's own reputation, I
>  know.  But I currently get offers of work based on my reputation
>  and posts.  I would like this to continue.  When it comes time to
>  do the work and collect the pay, I need to tie my nym to me.

While certainly useful, nyms have very definite practical limits.  I
see them as more useful and flexible once one discards the monolithic
nym concept (ie my name is xxx and my nym is Peer).  When one uses
multiple nyms for multiple purposes, discarding the secrecy of one is
less troublesome.  This also allows the cultivation of positive
reputation in diverse reputation markets.  Of course, doing this to
any great extent may be more trouble than it's worth.

>  2. does it (a nym) really help?  Police and governments are used to
>  dealing with people who change their names, use fake names, etc.  I
>  get the impression that having multiple/fake names is considered by
>  police to be evidence or at least indication of guilt.  "If you're
>  not guilty why're you hiding?".

While there is certainly a stigmata associated with nymdom (even
occasionally on Cypherpunks, of all places), I don't think it will
provide any additional liability (assuming nyms themselves don't
become illegal).  If your nym is investigated and compromised, then
your True Name has already been linked to your actions - they know
you're guilty.  And while using a nym may attract unwanted attention
due to its nature, can it be worse than using your True Name?

Perhaps.  I keep forgetting about selective enforcement...

Peer

Aside: How many people here actually check signatures?  For those who
don't, does seeing a signed message inspire any additional confidence?
For those who do, does seeing an incorrectly signed message inspire
any less confidence?

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.6.2

iQCVAwUBMQlwCKUvpX8WyJyxAQGUuAP/UZXCUbD9iJdmjOb9QGoZ8lD3j22bbeU0
04ucZ81EBMLB0rrOoaCihW7ywvm54/o5uJIw5QN68bkj5ZlM5MqCHn9j7Cowvyb6
VHY+5dhULDpT6GF5CRcxbYmdyYpbl0nHzO8PeaG0oX46+YJTEhDpXoywBxDcjHnP
+YLtJ+7xUx4=
=uesQ
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----




