From: douzzer@MIT.EDU
Date: Wed, 16 Oct 1996 04:25:42 -0700 (PDT)
To: everheul@NGI.NL
Subject: AW: Binding cryptography - a fraud-detectible alternative to key-escrow
Message-ID: <199610161120.EAA11108@lechter.chautauqua.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


oh pooh, you've seen this material run through over and over.
perhaps you respect my "opinion" because you know i am right. i know i
don't respect your position, because i am irrevocably convinced that
you are wrong.


acceptable:

-tracking of all chemicals which have been or can be manufactured into
  poisons, explosives, or psychoactives (cannot buy or sell
  anonymously)
-tracking of all automobiles and deadly weapons
-restrictions on yelling "fire!" in a crowded movie theater that isn't
  on fire

unacceptable:

-restrictions on what i can think, who i can speak to, what i can say,
  and how i say it, aside from shouting lies in a crowded movie
  theater or other such crowded public place.
-restrictions on how i can defend myself when my life is threatened
-prohibitions on drug purchase, sale, or use


i'm not ever going to change my position on this. you can drive bamboo
shoots under my fingernails and toenails, you can megadose me on LSD,
you can pull my teeth and administer electric shocks to my testicles,
and i am still going to believe that absolute information privacy, and
absolute freedom of thought and conversation, are inalienable human
rights.

if what you want to stop is airplane explosions, landmines, poisoned
water supplies, and mailbombs, please PLEASE make it your personal
mission to see that chemicals are more tightly controlled, airports
have the latest and greatest nuclear resonance tomographic imagers,
landmines aren't manufactured or sold any longer, water supplies are
tested around the clock using the latest technology, and everyone
knows not to open unsolicited packages.

if what you want to stop is drugs-prostitution-gambling, perhaps you
had better wake up. organized crime, and the drug lord, are created
and empowered by laws which make drug sales, prostitution, and
gambling illegal. why are they illegal? who is the victim?

if you take away the legal mandates which impose the wills of
religious zealots, you take away the structures which grant monopolies
to violent criminals. no amount of pontification, education, or
legislation is going to rid the world of people who will do whatever
is necessary to get drugs, visit prostitutes, and gamble. so if you
make them illegal, you instantly create a perpetual menace.

and now you expect me to agree that we should help the government
listen to everyone's communications, so that they can stop drug
dealers, prostitution rings, and betting pools?

hello? they created the problem.

i don't trust my government. i don't trust ANY government. government
is that segment of society that arrogates a monopoly on "legitimate
violence." it is composed of powergrabbers, and ass-kissers with
sinecures, who are paid with stolen money, some of it stolen from me.

the last thing in the world i am going to find acceptable is a law
that says i have to tell the government everything i tell my lover
over the phone.

fuck that!

-douzzer




