From: avatar@mindspring.com
Date: Fri, 9 Feb 1996 07:14:28 +0800
To: tcmay@mail.got.net
Subject: Tell me whats wrong with this
Message-ID: <199602082209.RAA17085@borg.mindspring.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Tell me whats wrong with this section of the telecom bill.  I have a six
year old boy I am trying to raise
and it is hard enough to teach him respect and values without explaining why
Ned Beatty is being
bungholed in the woods by Billy Bob or why the Terminator splattered this
guys brains all over the
wall.  
        Tell me why parents should not be able to censor their OWN
television so that they may raise their children the way THEY see
fit...................Did your dad give you his old
playboys?.........NOOOOO............
Did he take you down to your grandmothers autopsy before her
funeral?...................I Don't Think So.....
        Honestly, don't you believe that what a child is exposed to effects
his judgement, perception,
 attitude,and character??

All I'm saying is it's tough to raise a child these days without the added
distortion of modern 
programing and parents need not be denied any tool that can help them
achieve success.
         
 SEC. 551. PARENTAL CHOICE IN TELEVISION PROGRAMMING.
            (a) FINDINGS- The Congress makes the following findings:
                (1) Television influences children's perception of the values
              and behavior that are common and acceptable in society.
                (2) Television station operators, cable television system
              operators, and video programmers should follow practices in
              connection with video programming that take into consideration
              that television broadcast and cable programming has established
              a uniquely pervasive presence in the lives of American children.
                (3) The average American child is exposed to 25 hours of
              television each week and some children are exposed to as much 
              as 11 hours of television a day.
                (4) Studies have shown that children exposed to violent video
              programming at a young age have a higher tendency for violent
              and aggressive behavior later in life than children not so
              exposed, and that children exposed to violent video programming
              are prone to assume that acts of violence are acceptable
              behavior.
                (5) Children in the United States are, on average, exposed to
              an estimated 8,000 murders and 100,000 acts of violence on
              television by the time the child completes elementary school.
                (6) Studies indicate that children are affected by the
              pervasiveness and casual treatment of sexual material on
              television, eroding the ability of parents to develop
              responsible attitudes and behavior in their children.
                (7) Parents express grave concern over violent and sexual
              video programming and strongly support technology that would
              give them greater control to block video programming in the 
              home that they consider harmful to their children.
                (8) There is a compelling governmental interest in empowering
              parents to limit the negative influences of video programming
              that is harmful to children.
                (9) Providing parents with timely information about the 
              nature of upcoming video programming and with the technological
              tools that allow them easily to block violent, sexual, or other
              programming that they believe harmful to their children is a
              nonintrusive and narrowly tailored means of achieving that
              compelling governmental interest.
Charles Donald Smith Jr.

||The government  is my shepherd I need not work. It alloweth me to lie
 down on a good job. It leadeth me beside stilled factories. It destroyeth
 my initiative. It leadeth me in the path of a parasite for politics sake. YEA,
 though I walk through the valley of laziness and deficet spending I shall
 fear no evil, for the government is with me. It prepareth an economic utopia
 for me by appropriating the earnings of my grandchildren. It filleth my head
 with false security. My inefficiency runeth over. Surely, the government 
should care for me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in a fools paradise
forever.................AMEN!   || nuke'm if ya got'em||





