From: TV1 <comments@tv1.com>
Date: Fri, 27 Sep 1996 07:27:30 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: A Special Invitation to TV1 Users:
Message-ID: <199609262026.QAA14139@spirit.hks.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

The best things in life are still free-and some of them get even better! 

Once upon a time, you registered to use TV1, the only personalizable TV
listings site on the Internet. If you've been back to the site during the
past week, you would have noticed gargantuan, earth-shattering additions to
our humble old listings Web site.  TV1 has been incorporated into The GIST,
a full service home entertainment guide providing in-depth coverage of
what's worth watching on TV and the Internet, as well as original features
on everything from today's hottest television shows (with audio clips of
stars) to reviews of the latest home entertainment hardware.   

If you've been to TV1/TheGIST lately, we hope you've been enjoying our
service, and hope that you don't mind the fact that our graphic
improvements now require at least  a Netscape 2.0 or Explorer 3.0 browser.
Stick with us, and you'll be seeing even more great enhancements during the
next month. 

If you're one of those deprived Web surfers who hasn't seen the site in a
few weeks, c'mon back--and see what you've been missing.  Our new URL is 
www.theGist.com or you can still reach us at www.TV1.com.

Thanks.  We look forward to helping you with your home entertainment choices
tonight, and every night.

Your wannabee hosts, 





- ---
[This message has been signed by an auto-signing service.  A valid signature
means only that it has been received at the address corresponding to the
signature and forwarded.]

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.6.2
Comment: Gratis auto-signing service

iQBFAwUBMkrm7SoZzwIn1bdtAQGILAF8DsqSWOeABIYPgOcXwyk6FLores03wa15
LGDwf//VqW+dwIj4XyNvPqGD/CpdE27L
=2Ss2
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----




