From: Alex Strasheim <cp@proust.suba.com>
Date: Sun, 11 Feb 1996 16:48:11 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Reasons in support of crypto-anarchy WAS Re: Why am I (fwd)
In-Reply-To: <m0tlT1P-0008zzC@pacifier.com>
Message-ID: <199602110817.CAA01909@proust.suba.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text


> If Perry is REALLY sincere about objecting to the NON-crypto part of AsPol,
> he should demonstrate this by writing notes which are focussing on the
> crypto aspects, rather than just complaining.

What's the proper procedure for complaining about the assasination part 
of "AsPol"?

In general, it doesn't bother me when the list goes "off topic" -- I don't
read the stuff that doesn't interest me.  But when you start talking about
violence, you have to expect that people are going to react negatively. 
We have to say, "that's nuts" -- otherwise people will think that we're
unbalanced sociopaths. 

How much weight is Lotus going to give the opinions of a bunch of
unbalanced sociopaths when they're thinking about making deal to gak those
extra 24 bits?  Not much, I'll bet.  And what would happen if a murderous
thug held a press conference after cracking an exportable key?  Those
myopic journalists, rotten sons of bitches that they are, probably
wouldn't talk about the crypto at all.  "Why aren't you in jail?" --
that's the sort of thing you'd have to expect.  You could complain, but it
wouldn't do any good. 

"Listen.  I'm a working cryptographer, and I have a family to support.  In
order to take care of my kids, I have to get a job, and in order to get a
job I have to make my reputation.  How can I make my reputation if I can't
publicize my demonstration?  Everyone else is getting rich -- David
Sternlight and Dorothy Denning both have new condos, and Freeh just got
back from a luxury vacation at Disney World.  I don't want to get rich, I
just want to make a living.  So can we forget about the people I
assasinated and talk about the problems with these 40 bit keys?"

Deaf ears, that's what your words would fall on.  It would be like OJ and
his video all over again. 

I apologize in advance for not getting the joke if "AsPol", like Blacknet,
is tongue in cheek.  I haven't been following the topic closely.

I hope you're not serious.




