From: David Lesher <wb8foz@nrk.com>
Date: Wed, 12 Jun 1996 13:18:17 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com (Cypherpunks)
Subject: Britain to control crypto - official (fwd from Usenet)
Message-ID: <199606112007.QAA01167@nrk.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text



The British government quietly announced yesterday that it will
legislate to restrict crypto. The details are in the attached
Reuters and PA newswires.

Fuller details will no doubt be available at a one day workshop
that the Ministry of Defence is organising at the IEE in Savoy
Place on the 27th June. The speakers will include directors of
both CESG (GCHQ's front operation) and DRA, as well as a policeman
and the data protection registrar. The IEE's phone number is 0171
240 1871.

Ross



RTf  06/10 1355  UK to license information encryption services

    LONDON, June 10 (Reuter) - The British government unveiled proposals on
Monday aimed at meeting the demand for encryption services to safeguard the
confidentiality of electronic information transmitted on public
telecommunications networks.

    Technology minister Ian Taylor published a paper proposing a licensing
system for so-called "Trusted Third parties," or TTPs, to provide encryption
services.
    "The TTPs would offer digital signature, data integrity and retrieval, key
management and other services for which there is a commercial demand," Taylor
said in a written parliamentary answer.
    Taylor said encryption services would facilitate the development of
electronic commerce, thus helping to maintain Britain's competitiveness.
    The licensing policy would aim to protect consumers as well as to preserve
the ability of intelligence and law enforcement agencies to fight serious crime
and terrorism, Taylor said.
    This would be done by establishing procedures for disclosure to them of the
encryption keys, under safeguards similar to those which already exist under 
the Interception of Communications Act, he added.
    Taylor said officials in his department had already held preliminary
discussions with industry groups on the concepts set out in Monday's paper.
    Following consultation by the Department of Trade and Industry on detailed
proposals, the government intends to bring forward legislation, Taylor added.


PA   06/10 1808  MOVE TO STRENGTHEN INFORMATION SECURITY

  By Parliamentary Staff, PA News
   The Government tonight announced plans to strenthen the security of
information sent electronically over public telecommunications networks.
   Technology Minister Ian Taylor, in a Commons written reply, disclosed
proposals to licence trusted third parties to provide encryption services -- 
the process of transforming text into an unintelligible form that can only
subsequently be recovered by someone possessing the corresponding decryption
key.
   These services cover the digital signature, an electronic equivalent of a
hand-written signature, of electronic documents and the protection of the
accuracy and privacy of contents.
   Mr Taylor said: "There is a growing demand for encryption services to
safeguard the integrity and confidentiality of electronic information
transmitted on public telecommunications networks.
   "The Government therefore proposes to make arrangements for licensing 
trusted third parties who would provide such services." These would include 
digital signature, data integrity and retrieval and key management services.
   "The licensing policy will aim to protect consumers as well as to preserve
the ability of the intelligence and law enforcement agencies to fight serious
crime and terrorism by establishing procedures for disclosure to them of the
encryption keys, under safeguards similar to those which already exist for
warranted interception under the Interception of Communications Act."
   Mr Taylor, who disclosed publication of a paper, said it was intended to
bring forward proposals for legislation after consultation on detailed policy
proposals.
   The Trade and Industry Department said increased use of IT systems by 
British business and commerce was a major factor in their improved competitive 
position, but had brought increased security risks -- especially concerning 
integrity and confidentiality of information passed electronically between 
trading bodies.
   Prime candidates to be trusted third parties could include banks, network
operators and trade associations.



-- 
A host is a host from coast to coast.................wb8foz@nrk.com
& no one will talk to a host that's close...........(v)301 56 LINUX
Unless the host (that isn't close).........................pob 1433
is busy, hung or dead........vr vr vr vr.................20915-1433




