From: winn@Infowar.Com
Date: Wed, 24 Jul 1996 03:15:33 +0800
To: Rants@wired.com
Subject: Latest Schwartau Banned From Export
Message-ID: <199607231457.KAA27997@mailhost.IntNet.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


For Immediate Release:                                                 


Contact:
Robert Newman (508) 478-0900
Jacqueline Jeng (212) 780-6133

(New York, NY):  The Internet had been called the world's largest Enterprise 
Zone -- a place where small business people and entrepreneurs can compete with 
corporate giants.  But to make it work, a business must master the ways of the 
Net -- how to target on-line customers, how to present products and services 
with style, and how to keep sites and transactions secure.

That's why  Winn Schwartau and Chris Goggans, internet experts with first hand 
knowledge of both the potential and dangers of the Internet, have created The 
Complete Internet Business Toolkit ($34.95, Van Nostrand Reinhold, ISBN 
0-42-02222-0) -- the first comprehensive manual for setting up, operating and 
defending a business in Cyberspace.

In The Complete Internet Business Toolkit, two of the digital age's savviest 
cybernauts offer all the information and tools needed to establish, maintain, 
expand and protect Net enterprises. This complete resources includes information
on common pitfalls, security measures, and payment methods needed to open up 
shop on the Internet.

>From the basics of how to get on line to the mechanisms needed to protect credit
card transactions and use Cybercash, Schwartau and Goggans provide businesses 
with a step by step approach to creating a secure, functional and user-friendly 
on-line business.  The Complete Internet Toolkit will:

* Outline how a business can easily expand by taking advantage 
 of the Internet and its myriad resources.
* Demonstrate how to design a web page that will capture the 
 attention of cyber-customers.
* Review all of the current major security software for conducting 
  financial transactions on the Internet.

The Complete Internet Toolkit also includes a bonus CD-ROM with more than 5,000 
files. In a matter of minutes, it can download Web browsers, SLIP/PPP drivers, 
digital cash and encryption programs, graphics and animation viewers, 
compression utilities, and other key programs for navigating the Internet. THE 
BOOK CONTAINS CRYPTOGRAPHY TOOLS BANNED OUTSIDE THE U.S.

Far from another dry, reference book, The Complete Internet BusinessToolkit is 
written in clear and entertaining style and is designed for the small business 
owner or the individual poised to overcome any challenge in order to stake out 
their claim in Cyberspace.


See reverse side for Table of Contents and About the Authors

ABOUT THE AUTHORS

One of the world's leading experts on information security and electronic 
privacy, Winn Schwartau is President of Interpact, Inc., an international 
security consulting firm for industry and government and is the author of 
Information Warfare: Chaos on the Electronic Superhighway and Terminal 
Compromise, as well as more than 500 articles.

Chris Goggans owns Computer Security Technologies, a consulting firm based in 
Austin, TX. A founding member of the legendary hacking group, the "Legion of 
Doom," Goggans has helped Federal authorities crack some of their most notorious
computer and telecommunications frauds such as the "Masters of Deception" case. 
Goggans is the editor of the on-line publication, Phrack Magazine.


TABLE OF CONTENTS

... A Brief History of Cyberspace
... Getting Wired
... Electronic Mail
... Usenet NewsGroups
... Telnet and FTP
... The World Wide Web
... HTML
... So You Want to Get Paid
... Other Useful Applications
... Defending Yourself on the Internet
... Your Future on the Internet
... Appendix A - What's on the CD-ROM

If you are interested in scheduling an interview 
or in receiving more information about the book,
please call Bob Newman at (508) 478-0900.

The Complete Internet Business Toolkit 
is available in better bookstores 
or by calling
1-800-842-3636.  



Peace
Winn

		        Winn Schwartau - Interpact, Inc.
		        Information Warfare and InfoSec
		       V: 813.393.6600 / F: 813.393.6361
			    Winn@InfoWar.Com





