From: jamesd@echeque.com
Date: Sun, 9 Jun 1996 07:17:48 +0800
To: "Timothy C. May" <tcmay@got.net>
Subject: NOISE: "Fascism is corporatism"
Message-ID: <199606081932.MAA03833@dns2.noc.best.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Like someone who cannot resist looking at a dreadful traffic
accident, I continue to participate in this Detweiler inspired
troll:

At 07:09 PM 6/7/96 -0700, Rich Graves wrote:
> you forget that I'm a
> Certified Political Scientist. 
> [...]
> Once they got in power, then they started developing an economic ideology.

Untrue:

Fascism is of course a reasonably complete, coherent, and 
philosophically consistent logical system, almost as coherent as 
marxism, and far more logical than Mill's utilitarianism.  It was 
published and thoroughly debated well before they pursued or took power.

Rich Graves's lie is a lie I frequently hear from those who well 
know the truth, 

Many of my readers will think I am excessively harsh, calling Rich
Graves a liar rather than a fool, but I hear the above story 
(that fascism is not a coherent ideology or philosophy) primarily from
those whose interests this story serves, and if they genuinely 
thought this story was true, they would not know that it is in their
interests to push it.

Therefore one may reasonably conclude that most who push this story
are knowingly lying, that it is a widespread lie, not a widespread
fallacy or an alternate interpretation of the truth.

I mostly hear it from those whose economic ideology strongly resembles 
fascism, or those whose philosophy is directly descended from fascism, 
is in fact fascist philosophy.  Rich's economic ideology does not seem 
to resemble fascism, so I would guess he is in the second category
but not the first.  Most PC folk are postmodernists, poststructuralists,
deconstructionists, etc, which philosophies directly descend from fascist 
philosophy, and he seems to be PC, so this would explain his peculiar
assertion above.

Not only do such concepts as feminist science, phallocentric science, 
etc, strongly resemble such concepts as aryan science, jewish science, 
etc, but they are justified using the same arguments from the same 
philosophers.  Indeed Heidegger was not only a philosopher of fascism, 
but he personally participated in Hitler's terror, terrorizing his academic
colleagues, and Paul De Man of Yale University worked directly for the 
Nazis as a propagandist in occupied Belgium.

Hence the frequent lie by those who share this monstrous 
philosophy, that the fascists had no philosophy.

 ---------------------------------------------------------------------
              				|  
We have the right to defend ourselves	|   http://www.jim.com/jamesd/
and our property, because of the kind	|  
of animals that we are. True law	|   James A. Donald
derives from this right, not from the	|  
arbitrary power of the state.		|   jamesd@echeque.com





