From: "Peter Trei" <trei@process.com>
Date: Thu, 3 Oct 1996 23:17:04 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Can we kill single DES? #2
Message-ID: <199610021852.LAA28445@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Yesterday I posted 'Can we kill single DES?', and I count about 20 
responses, counting both those to the list, and those to me personally.

One offer was made of a $1000 reward in return for a crack, if the
offerer could make publicity hay of the offer (no, I don't have a problem
with that, but I'd like it set up so that others could add to the reward as
well). If the reward got big enough ($10k?) I think it would be a 
major incentive for otherwise uninterested people to run the screen
saver. On the other hand, it might get into legal hassles - I don't know.

The total cpu power pledged at the moment could sweep the key
space in 300-400 years, if my speed estimates are correct. 

I'm  concerned that the key scheduling may be worse than I estimated 
in my earlier letter - Phil Karn's code to generate the key schedule takes 
about 150x as long as my code takes to test the key. However, neither he 
nor I have bothered yet to optimize this part of the code, or reduce it to
assembler. It looks like I can get this part down to two instructions
per round, at least most of the time.

-----------

I'm really concerned about the problem of a search failing, or 
succeeding only after too long a time. Perry's proposal of about
a month of real time is on the right order, though I could see up
to 3 months being possible.

Here's what I'm thinking of doing:

1. Writing a prose description of the platform independent speedups.

2. Writing a proposal for a client-server protocol for doling out
   keyspace and returning results. Aside from the direct Internet
   interface, there will also be a mechanism for i/o via plain text -
   suitable for cut-and-paste, or simple CLI interfaces.
  
3. Writing a generic 'C' implementation of the keysearch client and server, 
   which demonstrates the i/o and the various speedups. This should
   be highly portable (but probably non-exportable). You'd also be able
   to search randomly, or from a designated starting point.

4. Work on the screen-saver based version of the client.

I'm still very interested in hearing about any hardware based 
approaches actually underway - not a pile of wild-assed guesses
and hopes.

Those who want to look at a fast DES in assembler should check 
out Phil's 386 version, which includes both generic C and a variety
of assembler implementations for the actual encryption step. See:
ftp://idea.sec.dsi.unimi.it/pub/security/crypt/code/des386.zip

Phil also has a Pentium version (a little slower than mine) 
which he mails to US citizens.

Peter Trei
trei@process.com




