From: Rich Graves <llurch@networking.stanford.edu>
Date: Sat, 3 Feb 1996 17:00:42 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Helping the Crypto-Clueless
Message-ID: <Pine.ULT.3.91.960203002327.24317F-100000@Networking.Stanford.EDU>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Bruce Baugh's latest missive inspired me to send the following to my new
racist friends, and also, coincidentally, to those at the Wiesenthal
Center, law enforcement agencies, and so on who also read the list.  Posts
to Stormfront-L are moderated to keep out any non-racist "noise," but I
assume that this message will be approved. Don really has no other choice. 

I imagine that this message will inspire greater awareness of and interest
in cryptographic applications, though I do not have great confidence that
it can do much to address my friends' cluelessness as such. 

I was not inclined to give them any real specifics on how to obtain and
employ cypherpunkish tools. After all, we're not very close friends. 

-rich

---------- Forwarded message ----------
Date: Sat, 03 Feb 96 08:21:32 0800
From: Not_By_Me_Not_My_Views Publishing <rich@c2.org>
To: stormfront-l@stormfront.org, rich.graves@leland.stanford.edu
Subject: Publicizing Stormfront-L; Internet privacy resources; Copyrights

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

I was surprised and disappointed to learn recently that there are no 
public archives of the Stormfront list. Many organizations, most of 
whom are strongly opposed to Stormfront's goals, seem to be keeping 
private logs of everything that is said on Stormfront-L, but to date 
none have made their archives public.

I find this silly. It's an open list, after all, and you know that 
people who do not share your goals are reading the list. With all this 
talk about The Enemy and free expression, it's odd that only The Enemy 
has accurate chronicles, and that you deny the general public the 
right to read what you say.

To address this oversight, I will be opening up my personal archives 
of Stormfront-L to public view on c2.org's Web server. I haven't 
worked out the details yet, but I'll probably be using hypermail, if 
this use is judged to satisfy the license terms.

Don't bother unsubscribing me. There are lots of people who would be 
only too happy to send me their copies of list mail, anonymized. Don't 
bother moving to another list, either, unless you don't mind losing 
all members of the list whose loyalties cannot be established beyond a 
reasonable doubt. See, you can't exactly announce on the list that 
you're moving to a new list where The Enemy can't find you.

Despite the fact that it has always been trivial to determine the list 
membership, I plan to respect list members' privacy by giving you all 
a day to avail yourselves of the large number of anonymity and double-
blind pseudonymity resources available on the Internet.

For information on the most well-known remailer, the penet.fi 
anonymous contact service, send email to both help@anon.penet.fi 
(sends you the FAQ) and ping@anon.penet.fi (assigns you an ID). The 
disadvantages of the penet.fi service are that it is slow (mail is 
delayed as much as 24 hours) and that it is not really secure (records 
of which IDs belong to which real email address are kept on a computer 
in Finland, and are therefore available to very determined law 
enforcement officers and other armed thugs).

Those with a technical bent may wish to look into more secure 
cypherpunk remailers, but they require some brains. Even I don't 
really use them.

Alternatively, if one or more of you have the means and incentive to 
set up a public Stormfront-L archive on the Internet, and very soon, 
then please let me know, and I will drop my plans. The advantages of 
an official public list archive run by someone who shares your goals 
should be obvious. Of course, private archives will still be kept by 
third parties in order to ensure that the official archive remains 
accurate and up to date. Checks and balances, natch.

I would be happy to provide some technical assistance if you need help 
getting started.

On to copyrights. The issue of who owns the copyrights to the 
Zundelsite pages has been raised both privately and publicly (very 
publicly).

It appears that Mr. Zundel has made his choice. The Zundelsite 
materials are in the public domain. Anyone can use them, abuse them, 
modify them, or sell them without violating anyone's intellectual 
property rights. May a thousand Zundelsites bloom. You may also 
include his works on BBSes, CD-ROMs, and T-shirts that you sell for 
personal profit. I'm working on a T-shirt for the "Zundel 
Detournement" contest right now. I doubt any of you would be 
interested in buying one, though.

Still, it would be much better if a formal network of mirror sites was 
established. That way you'd have a channel for receiving updates 
direct from Zundel's webmasters. Unfortunately, it seems that Mr. 
Zundel is embarrassed by the thought of being associated with the 
people who actually want to mirror his site for the content. He has 
had to  publicly distance himself from the very proud white 
supremacist Joe Bunkley, for example.

Most sincerely,

- -rich

P.S. You may have heard it reported recently that the author of PGP, 
which I am using (if this message does not bear a valid PGP digital 
signature, it is probably a forgery) is a Neo-Nazi sympathizer. This 
was untrue, and Phil considers this suggestion to be a serious libel. 
The newspaper that ran the allegation posted a very public and 
detailed retraction. Of course some Neo-Nazi sympathizers do use PGP, 
and so can you. In fact I'd love to exchange key signatures with one
of you guys in the San Francisco Bay Area (I'm sure there are a lot
of you here).

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.6.2

iQCVAwUBMRMa2Y3DXUbM57SdAQFQfwP+LV5H6+YPv9E7HHfmgcm7dQLDf/layB8s
xzUjH5QX8zdWNE5t+9gQt3W7sG3pN1IQ32IxclcmlMBZIQmVzmZ7rbsGq07gwpPc
I7yLqK0KAz8tNND+ZBtXX/lLQ4zu46cb6p2fJsMDS5Gv+cWA+smNE44CiM9reeNX
xlQAV5UeeLA=
=LpPb
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----




