From: Vinnie Moscaritolo <vinnie@webstuff.apple.com>
Date: Fri, 19 Jul 1996 14:55:33 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Responding to Pre-dawn Unannounced Ninja Raids
Message-ID: <v03007601ae14b98f81fd@[17.203.21.77]>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Tim, I understand you are pissed about what's going on in society but this
really isnt a great strategy;

>Personally, I think all folks should be armed at all times in their homes.
>Those who aren't are taking their chances.

doesn't this make you a prisoner of sorts... it is not healthy to go
through long periods of time in orange alert.  this might sound macho but
it's impracticle.

> My personal choice is a Heckler
>& Koch USP .45. loaded with Federal Golden Sabres, a hollowpoint round that
>has a 92% one-shot stop rate, with adequate penetration through Kevlar
>vests (typically worn by BATF raiders).
>Fortunately, though KTW ammo is no longer available to "marks" (=
>civilians), .45 ACP +P does a pretty good job. Certain +P .357 Magnum
>rounds are even better penetrators, but recoil and muzzle blast is pretty
>severe with these loads.)

Your choice of weapon is admirable, but I would suggest that something more
akin  to Glaser safety slugs,  SW.40 or .45 would be better. with proper
training you can perform an upward stitch, legs first. the point is the
Glaser won't pentrate the walls and nail your neighbors. The +P penetration
is way to strong and most likely to pass through.

A scatergun is generaly a better weapon for home defense. there is
something about looking down a 12 guage that changes your mind, Ninja suit
or not. Besides this kind of strategy is better used on gangsta types.

>I may die, but I hope I can take at least two of them with me.

pretty dumb attitude, I would also profess that One Live Tim May, even in
Jail  is worth more to the protection of freedom than one martyred nekid
hippy.
getting into a gunfight with an entry team that has had much more practice
than you can only lead to one conclusion, really the only protection from
these Ninja's is through some form of covenant community. All joking aside
that what Bo Gritz was really trying to do in Idaho, build a place where
your neighbor watches each others back. It doesnt mater whether your agree
with his politics or not, the point is he has an workable idea, Now couple
that with redundant instant communication..the kind that is hard to jam.
hmm imagine what  Waco would have been like if the Branch Davidians:

1) were not morons.
2) knew how to use the news media
3) had redundant, spread spectrum, satilite, and underground comms into the
net.

This equals instant net coverage, to rival CNN. It makes for a hard
target.Armed with your Militia-Mailer(tm) the strong crypto edition and
live video, these folks would never consider getting near you.

In some ways we already have one now, there are quite a few Cypher-punks
out there, and it's pretty easy to get the word out.

Historicaly  folks like BATF  prefer softer targets, they are safer. Ever
wonder why doesnt the Reno squad hit the crack houses..well thats kind of
dangerous, these folks know what they are doing and the cost to raid them
can be very expensive in lives. And what do you get when your done, another
well payed judge simply lets em out again..

It's also clear that there is another manufactured arms race going on, this
time instead of Communism it's the "war on some drugs"  It is costing us an
incredable amount of tax dollars, it fucks with our freedoms, and produces
limited results. This war also has the side-effect of producing a general
feeling of disenfrancisement among the very citizens it is designed to
protect.
Folks like Her Klinton, piss off the the American people, when on one hand
they spout rhetoric about how drugs are bad, and on the other hand condone
them.

Fighting back through firepower is unlikely to acheive the goal you want,
It endangers innocent (if there are any left) folks and leaves you looking
like a HCI poster child. I can see it now, "Crazed Naked Hippy Dies in
battle with Federal Officers, linked to ITAR regulated Munitions factory".

A better approach is to disarm and expose these bozos for what they are,
and for christ sakes get out there and VOTE... dammit... and get your
friends to VOTE..

But what do I know.. I just play a lawyer in Bob's rants..



Vinnie Moscaritolo
"Law - Samoan Style"
http://www.vmeng.com/vinnie/
Fingerprint: 4FA3298150E404F2782501876EA2146A






