From: Ventureweb@aol.com
Date: Wed, 12 Jun 1996 15:17:35 +0800
Subject: Venture capital financing/partnering for unique website ideas/entrepreneurs
Message-ID: <960611151902_554057529@emout14.mail.aol.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


 Re:	Venture Capital Funding/Venture Partnering For
 	Web Site Developers/Entrepreneurs

 Hello;

 	My firm, DataMerge, Inc.  is currently developing a program to
provide financial backing and strategic assistance for commercially
viable website development. It is my job to locate individuals with ideas
and/or plans for creating high profile,  niche market websites that, with
our assistance,  can be profitably brought to maket.

	We are very interested in unique, highly innovative, information
based sites which are targeted to meet the needs of a specific market,
industry or user group.  While we are interested in creative services
offered through the internet to a targeted group, we are not interested in
backing companies for expanding into run-of-the-mill areas such as ISP,
contract web-site design, or outsourced graphic design.

	We prefer to work with individuals or small teams (no more than
three).  Don't be discouraged if you don't have a lot of business
experience. What we look for more than anything else is creativity and
"entrepreneurial spirit." We find some of the best ideas come from
college, and even high school students.

	What we can provide the entrepreneur includes the following:

*	Strategic, marketing and business planning assistance
*	Financial support during development
*	Marketing/promotional assistance (capital, coordination and 	
	partnering)
*	Long term royalty stream from site
*	Further site development and maintenance contracts

 	DataMerge is currently the largest provider of  niche market
financing information and financing software applications to US
businesses, intermediaries and  finance professionals. DataMerge has a
user base of  21,000 individuals, and a newsletter subscriber base of
73,000.
	DataMerge has been featured in publications including Inc.,
 Financial Times, Entrepreneur, Success, Denver Post, and LA Times to
 name a few.

	If you wish to be considered for this program, please email me
(Spencer Kluesner, CEO, DataMerge, Inc.) at VentureWeb@aol.com.
Please provide a brief (one page or less) description of the website you
propose to develop.

	Snail mail:

DataMerge, Inc.
Website Development Dept
1720 S. Bellaire Suite 310
Denver, CO 80222




