From: "E. Allen Smith" <EALLENSMITH@ocelot.Rutgers.EDU>
Date: Wed, 11 Dec 1996 15:42:57 -0800 (PST)
To: tcmay@got.net
Subject: Re: "Bigotry" and related topics...a brief comment
Message-ID: <01ICW6TO6LV4AEL2GZ@mbcl.rutgers.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


From:	IN%"tcmay@got.net"  "Timothy C. May" 11-DEC-1996 18:12:33.87

>If anyone has well-formed questions about how redlining and "bigotry" is
>affected by strong cryptography and crypto anarchy, fire away. Just don't
>bury them deep in a long diatribe about the evils of "prejudice" and
>"discrimination."

	Yes... an analysis of the ways in which an insurance or credit
company could keep its disallowed data in secret, with sufficient
incentives for the individuals with knowledge of it not to disclose this
practice, is an interesting topic. One of the more obvious ways is to
subcontract the risk analysis to businesses operating in countries without
such limits, leaving the main insurance or credit company with just the
claims process, reserves management, and paperwork. Unfortunately, as
shown by the EU's attempts to make multinationals doing business there
keep data inside EU borders and under EU privacy laws, countries are
likely to clamp down on this process.

>difficult. The racial and ethnic groups which are most into "victimology"
>are the least successful--which is _cause_ and which is _effect_ may be
>debatable to many of you, but the correlation is very clear....maybe it's
>time they try something different, like getting their culture to embrace
>learning, reading, science, math, and business success, instead of
>glorifying victimization, crack cocaine, basketball stars, and pimps.)

	While I would fully agree with you that such cultural factors
are a considerable amount of the problem, I'd have to call attributing
all of the problem to them an oversimplification. I'd also point out the
cultural factors caused by the development of cultures under uncivilized
(in the sense of lacking cities) and unindustrial conditions, something
that is not helped by the current PC multiculturalist wish to bring such
cultures back. (The reasons for African cultures not developing in this
route are an interesting debate; I find Sowell's argument of lack of
navigable rivers and the presence of various diseases such as malaria
reasonably convincing.) Other factors include the lack of parental
education and nutrition resulting in lower parental IQs resulting in
lower child IQs; interracial adoption, while opposed by the PC types,
is one way to solve this problem. Another factor is lingering racism,
which is regretably still present in subsections of the country.
Hopefully, as various factors promoting large, noncompetitive
corporations (and unions) disappear, the resulting companies will
be forced to be sufficiently competitive to ignore such prejudices.
	-Allen




