From: Dmitri Chesnokov <chesnok@manifold.algebra.com>
Date: Sat, 20 Jul 1996 19:14:09 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Thanks to Prof. Sternlight for postings to CYPHERPUNKS
Message-ID: <199607200538.AAA07597@manifold.algebra.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text


> > Look, folks, we all know that 99% of what David Sternlight posts is
> > garbage. Why don't we all pledge not to answer any of his posts, and
> > then he'll go away.
> 
>    Thanks Perry for a great idea. Add my name to the list.

It is not surprising that some members of cypherpunks mailing list
failed to answer well-reasoned arguments of Prof. Sternlight. It is sad
but not at all unexpected that some of us resorted to ad hominem attacks
and attacked the person of Prof. Sternlight instead of trying to refute
his arguments.

It is reprehensible that after the ad hominem attacks failed to silence
a progressive and socially-responsible scientist such as David, the same
people are desperately trying to organize a boycott of his postings.
This boycott and fake "pledges" IMPOSED on members of Cypherpunks list
by those who were thought to have AUTHORITY on this list are contrary to
the notion of freedom of speech.

Dr. David Sternlight is undoubtedly one of the best experts in
cryptography and Government Information Policy, who is generous enough
to share his observations with us. We should thank you, David, for
taking your time and helping Cypherpunks to reach new heights in our
understanding of what should be the proper role of the government.
Please continue posting to our mailing list. There are people who are
interested in your views!

We have seen how so called "scientific establishment" on usenet -- a bunch
of "physicists" not known for anything but their intolerance to novel
ideas -- tried and failed to silence Prof. Archimedes Plutonium. A real
tragedy was prevented by a small number of freedom lovers like myself
who supported Archimedes in his tough times.

Protect freedom of speech! Do not let evil libertarians silence an
opposition scientist!

Dmitri Chesnokov.




