From: rishab@dxm.org (Rishab Aiyer Ghosh)
Date: Tue, 7 May 1996 14:07:08 +0800
To: rishab@dxm.org
Subject: New Internet peer-reviewed journal released
Message-ID: <199605062013.NAA24470@nic.cerf.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



New Internet Journal Released

Paris, France, 1996 May 6: Coinciding with the opening of the 
International World Wide Web Conference, a new journal dedicated 
to the Internet was released today by Munksgaard International 
Publishers. The journal is called "First Monday" and it is a 
peer-reviewed, electronic journal dedicated to the Internet, and 
only available on the Internet. It is the first electronic journal 
from Munksgaard, publishers of over seventy scientific journals in
dentistry, medicine, and other fields.

"First Monday" will appear on the first Monday of each month. Each 
issue will contain five to six full-length articles, plus regular 
features such as interviews and reviews. The inaugural May issue 
contains articles by notable specialists such as David Johnson and
David Post, co-directors of the Cyberspace Law Institute, and John 
Seely Brown, vice-president and chief scientist of Xerox Corporation 
and director of Xerox Palo Alto Research Center. 

The journal is available at http://www.firstmonday.dk

The editorial team of "First Monday" is widely experienced in computing,
telecommunications, and the Internet. Chief and Managing Editor is Edward 
J. Valauskas, author and editor of several widely recognized books on 
computing and the Internet, including "Internet Troubleshooter" and 
"Internet Initiative." He is joined by Esther Dyson as Consulting Editor 
and Rishab Aiyer Ghosh as Inter-national Editor. Esther Dyson is president 
of EDventure Holdings in New York City and chairperson of the Electronic 
Frontier Foundation. Rishab Ghosh, based in New Delhi, is editor and 
publisher of the Indian Techonomist, a newsletter on India's information 
industry. 

The editorial board of "First Monday" includes Vinton G. Cerf, founding 
President of the Internet Society and is currently Senior Vice-President 
at MCI; Ed Krol of the University of Illinois, author of several books 
including the highly popular "The Whole Internet User's Guide & Catalog"; 
Bonnie Nardi of Apple Computer, author of the book "A Small Matter of 
Programming" and editor of "Context and Consciousness"; Rich Wiggins of 
Michigan State University, author of "The Internet for Everyone"; Tony 
Durham, Multimedia Editor of the Times Higher Education Supplement in 
London and a member of the team which has developed THESIS, the 
newspaper's Internet service; Ian Peter, consultant in information 
technology, media and communications policy, based in Australia; and
Robert Hettinga, a digital commerce consultant in Boston.

"First Monday" publishes articles on the Internet and the Global 
Information Infrastructure. It follows the political and regulatory 
regimes affecting the Internet, and examines economic, technical and 
social aspects of the use of the Internet on a global scale. There 
will also be reports on the use of the Internet in specific communities, 
the development of Internet software and hardware, and the content of 
the Internet.

"First Monday" was released today on diskette, distributed at the 
International World Wide Web Conference in Paris, and on the First 
Monday Internet server at http://www.firstmonday.dk. In the future 
it will appear in three formats: as an electronic mail posting to 
subscribers; on the World Wide Web; and as an annual CD-ROM archiving 
all articles that have appeared in "First Monday."

Munksgaard was founded in 1917. Over the years Munksgaard has expanded 
to become a publishing house that is internationally recognized for 
its scientific journals devoted to servicing the international scientific 
and scholarly communities.

Editorial Office:
Editor-in-Chief: Edward J. Valauskas
(valauskas@firstmonday.dk)


First Monday is published monthly by:
Munksgaard International Publishers
Nxrre Sxgade 35, P.O. Box 2148
DK- 1016 Copenhagen K
Denmark
e-mail: publishers@firstmonday.dk




