From: "Vladimir Z. Nuri" <vznuri@netcom.com>
Date: Tue, 11 Jun 1996 11:20:21 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: whitehouse queries files on political enemies
Message-ID: <199606102021.NAA01025@netcom9.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



what goes around comes around..
this reminds me of the old stories of Nixon and the various NSA
domestic programs mentioned by Bamford ("Puzzle Palace")


- ------- Forwarded Message

Date: Fri, 7 Jun 1996 22:23:03 -0700 (MST)
To: fsnw-l@freespeechnews.com
From: Free Speech <ron@grapevinenews.com>
Subject: [FreeSpeech-NewsWire] Files White House Got


>From POLITICSnow I just picked up the following Associated Press story,
dated June 7, 1996:


"The Clinton White House acknowledged Friday it
sought and received more than 300 FBI files,
including those of House Speaker Newt Gingrich's
press secretary, former Bush chief of staff James A.
Baker III and other prominent Republicans."
- - -- Associated Press=20

Also, in POLITICSnow is another press story which states, "Blankley, Baker,
Fitzwater Among 330 FBI
Files White House Got". The following is from that story:

Friday, June 7, 1996=20
=A9 The Associated Press=20

"WASHINGTON (AP) - The Clinton White House acknowledged
Friday it sought and received more than 300 FBI files, including those of
House Speaker Newt Gingrich's press secretary, former Bush chief of
staff James A. Baker III and other prominent Republicans.=20

Republicans immediately denounced the White House, saying President
Clinton's aides misused the FBI to get information on political enemies.
A top GOP leader suggested hearings were in order.=20

White House spokesman Mark Fabiani called it "an innocent
bureaucratic mistake" and said there was no indication anyone reviewed
the FBI background material.=20

But among the unanswered questions were who at the White House
knew the files had been gathered and why they were kept at the White
House rather than returned to the FBI after the error was discovered by
a low-level White House employee sometime early in 1994.=20

The files - some 330 in all, almost all of them former employees of
Republican administrations - were stored in the White House security
office's vault in late 1993 and early 1994, the White House said."

My comments:

I have heard posters say, "So what, I'm alive. I have a job. Why should I
care about this Whitwater
stuff?"

I, myself, have defended President Clinton in POLITICSnow when they were
known as PoliticsUSA. I
have held firm that there is no evidence against the Clinton's. This still
holds true, in my opinion, with
Ron Brown, Vince Foster, etc.

I stated that Travelgate, Whitewatergate, Troopergate, etc. were much to do
about nothing. Maybe they
are in themselves. Although, I am on the verge of making a public apology in
POLITICSnow based upon
the evidence that is beginning to come forth.

For anyone who counts himself a liberal, a basic premise is to have the
government out of our personal
business unless there is an absolute need for it. What apparently has
happened is that the Whitehouse,
for purely political reasons, obtained 330 FBI files almost all of them
former employees of Republican
administrators. This violates, in my opinion, the basic principles of
liberalism. I will answer any posts in
this news forum by anyone who terms himself a liberal and at the same time
defends, what I consider,
Nazi behavior. I want to add that I have the highest respect for the FBI and
all the other Intelligence
Services of the United States. The buck stops somewhere, and it is not with
the FBI.

Best regards,


Bob Drake
snoball@mail.idt.net




- ------- End of Forwarded Message


------- End of Forwarded Message





