From: Duncan Frissell <frissell@panix.com>
Date: Mon, 12 Aug 1996 06:04:39 +0800
To: "David E. Smith" <cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Oregon License Plate Site in the News Tonight!
Message-ID: <2.2.32.19960811195935.00993f9c@panix.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


At 11:28 PM 8/9/96 -0500, David E. Smith wrote:

>In Missouri, that's all they wanted (a PO Box).  That's
>perfectly copacetic by them.  If you want to register for
>voting - since we have Motor Voter - they of course need
>a real address.  And the post office's requirements for
>getting a PO Box are nearly nonexistent.

Using a Mail Receiving Service (MRS) address will usually work.  Many
bureau-rats have yet to compile or use a list of Mail Receiving Services.
There *are* commercial firms that do compile such lists but they have to be
used to be any good.

In those rare cases where they turn you down for a registration or drivers
license because they happen to notice that you are using a MRS, you can find
a real person to accept your mail for you.  I solved the problem once by
advertizing on Usenet newsgroups for an address and cut a deal.  Another
possibility is to use the "homeless defense."  I'm homeless, this is the
only address I have.  Auto insurance companies are more likely to give you
trouble than government if you use an accommodation address since they have
actual money to lose.  There are still 10 or so states that do not require
auto insurance so by forum shopping, one can dodge this problem and save
money at the same time. 

Most states are not so fussy, and one can usually just use MRS addresses.
Litigation to force you to list a "real" address is exceedingly rare (it's
not worth the government's time).  This is particularly so since it is
trivial to switch cities, counties, states, and countries (if in the US use
Canada) for official address purposes.  You control your address.  Move into
a hotel/motel that rents by the week, list the address, and then leave.  

Even in the Nazi strongholds of Mitteleuropa with their address registration
laws, one can crash with friends or sublet apartments and avoid the process.
Holiday cottages let a month at a time is another technique.  Plenty of
Germans are living unregistered lives even today.

Residence=Domicile

Domicile requires "actual physical presence plus intent to make it your
home."  *Your* actions establish intent not any actions by the government.

DCF

"Last year, the Government of the United States collected more taxes from
the American people than any unit of government has ever collected before in
the history of mankind -- and still it's not enough."





