From: JR@ns.cnb.uam.es
Date: Wed, 10 Jul 1996 01:45:01 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: [RANT] Giving Mind Control Drugs to Children
Message-ID: <960709155621.21003a36@ROCK.CNB.UAM.ES>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


>One can only wonder how much more great some of the people on this list would 
>be today if they knew ADD back then. 
>
	That a fallacy. First, there's no way to know what they suffered if
anything at all. Second, there's no way to know what would have happened.
Third, there's what they themselves said.

	I know of many people who has your same signs. Hey you should see
*my* office. And you should have seen it when I could devote myself to
interesting things instead of XXXX(whateverI don't like) crap.

	Someone said about a kid not concentrating on grammar. Hell, I
couldn't stand half of my professors in class, though I would perfectly
listen to the same subject with other people. I don't know about you and
don't pretend to tell you anything. But there are lots of cases in which
the problem is *on the other side* (society, teachers, work, parents,
priests, erroneous expectatives). I wonder how can we know from the
external manifestations that those people were ADD and not just brilliant
guys with dull teachers.

	As for those people you mentioned. Maybe if they had prozac they
would have been perfect, quiet and compliant citizens, concentrated on
what the power-that-be asked them to do. Think of Einstein happily working
for Hitler, not worried about other themes (like ethical implications for
instance).

	Thing is, it's very easy to keep everybody uniform. Easier than
giving equal opportunities to less-good workers or allowing one to attempt
many projects lest one succeeds and changes the stablishment! Let's make
everyone into a uniform clone, and those who can't be made -say Down
syndrome people- be exterminated. Let's enterprising people be forced
into non-creative jobs, and if they don't like, be given drugs.

	Yeah! Let's monitor what everybody says, detect those guys who
spend too much time at work reading cypherpunks or worrying about politics
(which is not their job) and control them. Let's tap all their conversa-
tions and force them to fit our idea of a uniform world of mediocre wits
who just work perfectly in what we tell them and never question anything.

	I also wonder how those people you mentioned would have been
allowed to do such great discoveries and destroy the grounds of their
societies under the society we are heading to.

	 "The World turning around the Sun? C'mon! Everybody knows it is 
flat and the Center of the Universe. That Galileo guy is obviously sick. 
Let's calm him down with some drugs so he can concentrate on Theology as 
it should well be"...

	Sorry, I think we need unfitted people, feeling unhappy about the
society to make it evolve.

				jr





