From: William Knowles <erehwon@c2.org>
Date: Wed, 26 Jun 1996 17:44:51 +0800
To: Cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Alternic.net (was domain zapping)
Message-ID: <Pine.SUN.3.91.960625220103.16972A@infinity.c2.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


With all the talk about InterNIC zapping domains, there should be
some talk about other registries, Alternic.net : http://www.alternic.net
is offering an alpha test for registering new TLD's and the prices
are considerably less expensive than the Internic.


William Knowles
erehwon@c2.org
finger for public key

--Fwd--

 A L T E R N I C . N I C

 Is proud to announce .NIC!
 
 The folks at alternic.nic (formerly alternic.net) are proud to
 announce alpha testing of the .NIC top level domain name served up by:
 
 MX.ALTERNIC.NIC at 204.94.42.1
 
 Other names are served by .NIC...
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
    * ALTERNIC.NIC is being built to create a truly PUBLIC Network
      information center, for the benefit of all, on and off the net.
    * ALTERNIC.NIC is broadcast to disseminate information on Internet
      related issues, and to research new ideas on promoting the
      Internet.
    * ALTERNIC.NIC will promote the concept of Top Level Domainsi, and
      the de-centralization of name service. To this end, ALTERNIC.NIC
      will accept registrations for .NIC top level domains, as well as
      for administration of new top level domains. For now ALTERNIC.NIC
      will accept the existance of and promote a limitted number of top
      level domains. It should be recognized that at this point the
      concept of TLD diversification is EXPERIMENTAL.
    * ALTERNIC.NIC Will accept new TLDs or domain names which fit the
      following criteria:
         o The TLD or domain name must not already be registered.
         o DNS must be active for any TLD or domain names.
         o Payment of fees must be made to ALTERNIC.NET in advance.
         o Disputes between name holders may be handled several ways:
              + Release of domain name rights by existing name holder.
                If you want a name that's already registered, offer to
                buy the holder's rights.
              + ALTERNIC.NET will honour court orders from the
                jurisdiction which the domain name is currently
                registered in.
              + Sue ALTERNIC.NET. We're a privately held company, and
                do as we please. If you'd like to serve us with papers,
                it's dba A Towing Company, Inc., a Corporation
                registered with the Secretary of State of Washington
                State, USA. Of course, we'll have our corporate
                attorney counter-sue, and you can do it on our turf, OK


--End Fwd--





