From: "John Jackson" <John.Jackson@orci.com>
Date: Sun, 17 Nov 1996 14:04:59 -0800 (PST)
To: jjackso9@rocky.orci.com
Subject: ALERT!  123,000 announced job cuts
Message-ID: <199611171940.MAA04675@rocky.orci.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


         DOWNSIZED? - RIGHTSIZED? - RESTRUCTURED?
HOW CAN YOU PROTECT YOURSELF FROM THIS EVERYDAY OCCURRENCE?

--->               AT&T  =  123,000 announced job cuts
--->      GENERAL MOTORS =  122,000 announced job cuts
--->               IBM   =  400,000 announced job cuts 
--->    JOE's PRINT SHOP =  2 announced job cuts

Are you dodging the arrows of Corporate America?

Do you know someone (a family member, a friend, maybe even yourself)
who has lost a job during the past six months? Has this person secured
another job that is paying the same salary and benefits as the job
they lost?

There was once a time when people held a job for 20 to 30 years and
retired with a secure pension.  Those days are gone!  So what can the
average person do to protect him or herself financially in the
unfortunate, but all too common, event of losing a job?

Financial advisors have been telling us for years that we should
diversify our investments.  If this concept makes sense, should we not
also diversify our sources of INCOME?  Does it make sense to leave
yourself vulnerable by expecting all of your income to come from one
source?

Rexall, an international company that was founded in 1903, is
flourishing today as a very successful publicly traded company.  You
have no doubt heard of Rexall and are familiar with the more than
7,000 Rexall drug stores around the country.  In fact, more than 87%
of adult Americans today recognize the name Rexall and associate it
with trust and integrity.  Rexall's six divisions are all very
profitable and growing at staggering rates.  

So what does this have to do with you?

Rexall has developed an entrepreneurial arm of its company that helps
individuals build a substantial secondary income stream without the
hassles of ordinary business.  No huge investments, no inventory, no
employees, NO RISK.  This is not some fly-by- night operation.  This
is REXALL!  One of the most well known and respected corporate names
in America.

My partner, Todd Smith, has helped hundreds of people diversify their
income and create substantial passive income streams through the
entrepreneurial arm of the Rexall Companies.  Todd himself has earned
over one million dollars in EACH of the last three years in this
simple, no-stress, home-based business.  He knows what he is doing and
how to help point people, like you, in the right direction.  

If you would like to learn how we can help you create a financial
hedge against a possible downturn in your present employment, or
simply to develop an additional source of passive income, call me
today.  Todd has created an informational audio tape that explains our
entire business and how you can participate in it.

If you are making all the money you want, have your retirement
completely paid for, enjoy your job and can see working it until you
retire, then CONGRATULATIONS.  You are one-in-a-thousand.  On the
other hand, if you are like most Americans that are not happy with
their current financial situation, it would be worth the phone call
and some time listening to Todd's tape.  What have you got to lose? 
If you DON'T call, you have a lot to lose.

Call (303)-480-5841 right now and ask for this free tape to be rushed
to you without any obligation whatsoever.

PS:  The message on this Tape is timely, addresses the societal and
economic forces that WILL change our lives in the coming new century,
and explains precisely why entirely new methods of doing business are
necessary and are evolving.  Your thinking about money, business,
success and your own future will be challenged by this message!

                 (303) 480-5841 - 24 hours
                    ASK FOR TODD's TAPE

                   J. Jackson Associates
             Income Diversification Strategies
                  Parker, Colorado  U.S.A.





