From: wendigo@pobox.com
Date: Sat, 23 Mar 1996 19:18:37 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com (Cypherpunks)
Subject: New Encryption Software-Encrypt Image & Text Files (fwd)
Message-ID: <199603222241.RAA07882@apollo.gti.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

Thought y'all might find this interesting ... if not funny.


: Press Release from Antelope Productions, Inc
: 
: Subject:  New Encryption Software; Quick@Crypt
: 
: 
: Antelope Productions, Inc. is releasing our new encryption package
: called Quick@Crypt that has several advantages over any other
: encryption software available on the market.  Now more than ever,
: there is a need for security in transferring sensitive information
: through the Internet and networks worldwide.  There has not been a
: universal way for people to send all types of  files easily,
: inexpensively and securely through the Internet or networks UNTIL NOW.
:  All other encryption software available  on the market requires a
: separate license for each site (the sender as well as the receiver). 
: With Quick@Crypt you may freely distribute the decryption program. 
: Only the encryption side requires a licensed copy of Quick@Crypt. 
: There is also no limit on the password size and there is no
: restriction on overseas use.
: 
: You will find pricing of  Quick@Crypt a real bargain, given the
: pricing and functionality compared to other available encryption
: packages.  Our price is only $99.95  plus $5 shipping in US plus state
: sales tax in Texas, New Jersey and Florida.  Quantity discounts are
: also available.
: 
: Installation is performed easily on any Windows or Windows 95 system. 
: Memory requirements with as little of 2 MB of RAM (I tried it on a
: Tandy portable with 2 MB!).   We also have a version to work in DOS. 
: There is a floating toolbar that always remains on top of your current
: open window.  Quick@Crypt's floating toolbar gives you  four options.
: 1. Encryption-You have a user friendly screen to select the drive,
: directory and files that you want to encrypt.  Chosen files for
: encryption  are grouped together and compiled into a single executable
: file with an assigned password you enter.  There is  no limitation on
: the password size. Overseas distribution of the encrypted files is not
: restricted.  File encryption often takes less then ten seconds. 2.
: Decryption- Allows you to select the drive, directory and file you
: want to decrypt.  The password is requested once you select the
: encrypted file.  Decryption is performed in Windows or Windows 95 with
: the freely distributed  decryption module.  Decryption module is sent
: to each receiver with no licensing requirement.  Decryption of the
: executable file may also be performed at the DOS prompt with no
: additional software. 3. Help- A user friendly system for all of
: Quick@Crypt's functions, along with an index and glossary. 4.    Exit
: 
: For more information, wholesale quotations,  or ordering, please email
: your requests to schek@airmail.net (Walter Chek), Subject: Quick@Crypt
:  < Inquiry>
: 

- -- 
      Mark Rogaski <wendigo@gti.net>           100,000 Lemmings
   GTI GlobalNet System Administrator		Can't Be Wrong!


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.6.2

iQCVAwUBMVMsog0HmAyu61cJAQHGGAQAxa1n7zXlD49TH7SlQTRGlRdEp2QGmvTt
Vcdp/9VrbXqNIhSHQC5yxT7rc7SDOS2mvyFx9kz4rraiBOEMt5wZpGHkExpXMFHS
T8mrHHrONEUjLDiiGZSLWtCPTjd0OZ4Qp/251OJxT8kZ9P/Sdmx3NueG6dlMFMpm
m5qz167wK3M=
=0+8d
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----




