From: "Timothy C. May" <tcmay@got.net>
Date: Thu, 3 Oct 1996 18:40:07 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Party in Santa Cruz, CA, October 12th, 5 p.m.
Message-ID: <v03007801ae785c2e7587@[207.167.93.63]>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Here's an announcement for a party at my house on Saturday, October 12th,
1996. Cypherpunks and others are welcome to attend, especially those in the
Santa Cruz--Monterey area, or even those from the Bay Area and Beyond who
want to make the drive. The party is nominally a party for folks in another
group I'm in (PenSFA--the Peninsula Science Fiction Association), but many
of the Usual Suspects (Bay Area folks) will be there, including various
Cypherpunks. Still, this is not a "Cypherpunks meeting" per se. (The
October 12th date for the PenSFA schedule happens to collide with the usual
"second Saturday" date for a Bay Area Cypherpunks gathering, but my party
should not be confused with this general meeting. If there is such a
meeting on the 12th, you can come on down afterwards!)

(Apologies for posting this to the list, but it's the best way to get the
information out. To make up for the bandwidth, I'll try to avoid posting
any other articles today.)

Last minute note: At previous parties, many have arrived "fashionably
late." Unfortunately, my house is in a rural area, with no streetlights and
few signs, and several people reported problems finding the place in total
darkness. So, you have been warned....it's easier to find your way before
it gets dark. Also, standard PenSFA rules are for people to bring some food
or drink to share, or contribute $2 to a general fund. I'll have a barbecue
grill set up, so items for the grill are a good idea.

-----

PenSFA & Others Party, Tim May's house, Corralitos (10 miles east of Santa
Cruz). Saturday, October 12th. Party starts at 5 p.m. Standard party
rules--bring something to eat and drink, and preferably to share. A couple
of barbecue grills will be available. 427 Allan Lane, Corralitos,
408-728-0152. Two cats.

People are welcome to stay over until Sunday. I suggest you contact me
early, to reserve one of the spare beds, futons, etc.

As with past parties at my place(s), folks are encouraged to find things to
do in Santa Cruz, Monterey, Carmel, etc. during the day. The Monterey Bay
Aquarium is worth a trip, especially with the new "Outer Bay" exhibit (the
biggest piece of glass in the world). A famous rose place, "Roses of
Yesterday," is a few miles further down Brown's Valley Road from my place.

Directions: Get to Santa Cruz on Highway 17. From Santa Cruz, travel toward
Monterey on Highway 1 for about 8 miles. Take the Freedom Boulevard exit,
just past the Rio Del Mar exit. Travel 5 miles on Freedom Blvd. Turn left
on Corralitos Road. Travel about 2 miles or so, to a 4-way intersection.
The renowned Corralitos Market and Sausage Company will be on your left.
Turn right on Brown's Valley Road, and follow it as it turns to the left at
another intersection (with Amesti Road, which is closed). Travel about a
mile and turn right at Allan Lane. (It will be at about the "360" mailbox
marker on Brown's Valley Road.)

Drive to the very top of the hill. My driveway is on the left, and should
be clearly marked as "427." My house is the second one in along the
driveway, a Mediterranean design. There's parking for about 10 cars in my
driveway. Beyond that, you're on your own to park further away. (Please
don't block the driveways of others.)

(A warning: It gets dark early this time of the year. It's better to follow
the directions to my house when it's light, as there are no streetlights
out here, and few other lights. I urge folks to arrive around 5.)

>From Monterey or Carmel, drive toward Santa Cruz, getting off at the Green
Valley Road exit. Drive east. Turn left on Freedom Boulevard. Drive several
miles and turn right on Corralitos Road. Follow rest of directions from
above description.

We got computers, we're tapping phone lines, I know that that ain't allowed.
---------:---------:---------:---------:---------:---------:---------:----
Timothy C. May              | Crypto Anarchy: encryption, digital money,
tcmay@got.net  408-728-0152 | anonymous networks, digital pseudonyms, zero
W.A.S.T.E.: Corralitos, CA  | knowledge, reputations, information markets,
Higher Power: 2^1,257,787-1 | black markets, collapse of governments.
"National borders aren't even speed bumps on the information superhighway."








