From: sameer <sameer@c2.org>
Date: Fri, 5 Jan 1996 12:13:59 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: COMMUNITY CONNEXION ANNOUNCES PROMOTION FOR UNCENSORED ACCESS TO THE INTERNET
Message-ID: <199601041701.JAA09953@infinity.c2.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Newsgroups: alt.censorship,comp.org.eff.talk,news.admin.censorship,alt.privacy,comp.privacy
Subject: COMMUNITY CONNEXION ANNOUNCES PROMOTION FOR UNCENSORED ACCESS TO THE INTERNET
From: Community ConneXion <admin@c2.org>

For Immediate Release - January 4, 1996
Contact: Sameer Parekh 510-601-9777x3

 COMMUNITY CONNEXION ANNOUNCES PROMOTION FOR UNCENSORED ACCESS TO THE
			       INTERNET

Berkeley, CA - In response to recent restrictions on Usenet material
made available to CompuServe customers, Community ConneXion, an
Internet privacy provider, today announced that has begun a promotion
to offer uncensored access to Usenet newsgroups at a discount to users
who have experienced censorship at the hands of their Internet service
provider, employer, or university.

"'The Internet views censorship as damage, and routes around
it,'" said Community ConneXion President Sameer Parekh, quoting
a famous saying on the net, "While a network provider, university,
or employer may want to limit the access their customers, students, or
employees may have to potentially controversial material on the
Internet, people need to realize that it is still possible for them to
access controversial material through alternative means. We're
making available services to make this fact obvious."

Community ConneXion offers full Internet access to its customers, with
no content-based restrictions on materials its customers may read or
make available on the Internet.  Community ConneXion has made
available one free month of service to users signing up for services
with Community ConneXion who are doing so in order to avoid content-
based restrictions instituted by their net provider, university, or
employer.

Customers who would like to take advantage of Community ConneXion's
uncensored access may continue to use their current provider for their
basic access, but to access the previously-unavailable materials they
may proxy through to the Community ConneXion servers. Parekh commented
on the ease with which people can bypass censorship instituted by
their provider or employer, "Providers, employers, and universities
may think that they are restricting access through their sites, but
given the ease with which people can set up an account with us, the
organizations trying to restrict access will soon realize that
censorship is hopeless."

Community ConneXion, founded in June of 1994, is the leading provider
of privacy on the Internet. They provide anonymous and pseudonymous
Internet access and web pages in addition to powerful web service,
virtual hosts, and web design consultation.  Information is available
from their web pages at http://www.c2.org/. More information on the
uncensored promotion is available at http://www.c2.org/uncensored/.






