From: hallam@vesuvius.ai.mit.edu
Date: Sun, 22 Sep 1996 04:18:56 +0800
To: jim bell <jimbell@pacifier.com>
Subject: Re: Kiddie porn on the Internet
In-Reply-To: <199609211655.JAA21404@mail.pacifier.com>
Message-ID: <9609211734.AA15897@vesuvius.ai.mit.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



[AP drivel deleted]

Go talk to someone who is a member of an organisation like the PLO or
Hammas and pretty near the top. If you think that they would be intimidated
for a moment by AP you have another think comming.

If it could the US would have assasinated Saddam by now. It can't because it
is too difficult to find out where exactly a person will be. Assasination
attempts against Castro similarly failed. 

If you care to look at the history of Cambodia you will see that Lon Nol
assumed the presidency despite the knowledge that there was practically no ch
chance of defeating the Khumer Rouge and that he would almost certainly be dead
in less than a week as a result. 

Both the assumption AP rests on are utterly false. It is neither possible
to assasinate people at will nor will it intimidate. 

In addition *ANYONE* who attempted to implement AP would be someone *I*
would regard as a tyrant and therefore a legitimate target by the rules
of AP. I would naturally consider it permissable to engage the support of 
others in their suppression. Since we now live in the fantasy land of AP
I can now wipe out anyone anywhere so I eliminate all AP leaders.


I think that this type of talk is incredibly dangerous. There are plenty of
people on the net who are psychos and if you spread AP drivel arround someone
is going to act on it. Probably not Jim Bell, more likely a psychopath who
lurks on the list but does not post. 

If you call for people to be murdered - and let us not forget that this is
what AP is about you bear the responsibility when someone acts on it.



I consider AP to be very close to calling for the assasination of the 
President of the USA. That is a federal crime and there is a law that 
requires the investigation of any such threats. I suggest that people
think *very* carefully before engaging in this dangerous nonsense any
further. 

	Phill

PS it is not censorship to stop people from advocating murder.




