From: Majordomo@c2.net
Date: Thu, 5 Dec 1996 17:27:17 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Welcome to cryptography
Message-ID: <199612060127.RAA27322@blacklodge.c2.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


--

Welcome to the cryptography mailing list!

Please save this message for future reference.  Thank you.

If you ever want to remove yourself from this mailing list,
you can send mail to <Majordomo@c2.net> with the following
command in the body of your email message:

    unsubscribe cryptography cypherpunks@toad.com

 Here's the general information for the list you've subscribed to,
 in case you don't already have it:

[Last updated on: Mon Dec  2 19:23:19 1996]
"Cryptography" is a low-noise mailing list devoted to cryptographic
technology and its political impact.

WHAT TOPICS ARE APPROPRIATE:
  "On topic" discussion includes technical aspects of cryptosystems,
  social repercussions of cryptosystems, and the politics of
  cryptography such as export controls or laws restricting cryptography.

  Discussions unrelated to cryptography are considered "off topic".

  Please try to keep your postings "on topic". In order to assure that
  the quality of postings to the mailing list remains high, repeated
  postings "off topic" may result in action being taken by the list
  moderators.

MODERATION POLICY:
  In order to keep the signal to noise ratio high, the mailing list
  will be moderated during its initial weeks of operation. This will
  be changed if it appears that the list will remain on topic without
  moderation.

TO POST: send mail with your message to 
     cryptography@c2.net

TO UNSUBSCRIBE: send mail to
     majordomo@c2.net
  with the line
     unsubscribe cryptography
  in the body of your mail.

IMPORTANT -- PLEASE READ:
  Please note that sending requests to unsubscribe to the mailing list
  itself is considered highly antisocial. If the software running the
  mailing list is not working and you cannot reach the moderator, the
  users of the mailing list will be utterly unable to help you, so
  sending requests to the list will only succeed in annoying them. If
  all else fails, send mail to postmaster, NOT to the mailing list. If
  you think you may have trouble remembering how to unsubscribe, then
  save this message forever -- do not simply try asking the mailing
  list for help.




