From: Leslie Todd Masco <cactus@hks.net>
Date: Fri, 16 Feb 1996 12:43:01 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: META: Filtering/Posting advice
Message-ID: <199602122243.RAA22214@bb.hks.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

"I have a concern..."

Cypherunks 
First: Stipulated that any traffic has a 'right' to be on cypherpunks.
However, cypherpunks is what we make it.  Every time you post a message,
consider the desirability of seeing a hundred or so messages just
like it from every other readers' point of view.  Content control begins at home.

Second: I'll remind the reader that one can easily evaluate an
individual's past contributions to cypherpunks by looking at the archives'
"by author" listing.  If you post to cypherpunks, I'd suggest that you
go back and look at what you've posted in the past to get a feel for
how other people on the list see you.

Third: Filtering isn't just a game for the vocal: as noise begets noise, I'd
encourage everybody to filter out people whose prose they simply
can not stand.  While this is an important aspect to creating a more
readable list, I can't imagine anybody really caring who else has been
"plonked": to me, in seems no more than a preadolescent "nyah nyah, I'm
not listening..."

I'm half- (only half-, as I'm a free-speech absolutist) tempted to write a tool
that would automatically remove any person from cypherpunks who posts a
"plonk" message.  Until the total lack of security in majordomo is addressed,
this is a game that anybody who can telnet to an smtp port can play.

Fourth: Cypherpunks is fast becoming a ghetto.  My first reaction (which I
did not follow) to several crypto posts in the last few days has been to refer
the posters to coderpunks.  While there is some signal that will always
remain uniquely suited to cypherpunks (Tim May's contributions, Strata's
response to JPB, and Jim Bell's Assassination idea -- though not all of the
messages he's sent since -- immediately come to mind), any signal
that has another place to migrate will do so if the noise issue isn't addressed
better.  

Words of wisdom from the past:

 This program posts news to thousands of machines throughout the entire
 civilized world.  Your message will cost the net hundreds if not thousands of
 dollars to send everywhere.  Please be sure you know what you are doing.

 Are you absolutely sure that you want to do this? [ny]

IE, please... if you aren't adding *new* *signal* to the list, please
refrain from posting.  If you must flame a person, do it in private email.

	-- Todd
- ---
[This message has been signed by an auto-signing service.  A valid signature
means only that it has been received at the address corresponding to the
signature and forwarded.]

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.6.2
Comment: Gratis auto-signing service

iQBFAwUBMR/CnioZzwIn1bdtAQEG6gGAsw6qzFNpiRLGRW0n7qdHDIJ+Yf+XmBIC
dnntiQ+UbXODeNLwsp4jVPSFVETAkCJj
=GAYX
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----




