From: "Deranged Mutant" <WlkngOwl@unix.asb.com>
Date: Thu, 21 Mar 1996 03:34:19 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: FTC's privacy list (was "Welcome to privacy")
Message-ID: <199603200137.UAA06964@unix.asb.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


I subscribed to the FTC (Federal Trade Comission) Privacy list. I'll 
lurk a bit [discipline indeed] and see who and what's there.  Could be 
interesting.

--Rob

------- Forwarded Message Follows -------

Welcome to the privacy mailing list!
[..]
Here's the general information for the list you've
subscribed to, in case you don't already have it:

ABOUT THE PRIVACY MAILING LIST

Welcome to the Federal Trade Commission's Bureau of Consumer
Protection Privacy Principles mailing list.  The Bureau has
established this list as a forum for discussing the privacy
principles that should be applicable to consumers' use of the
Global Information Infrastructure.  The Bureau seeks commentary
and resource materials from consumers, industry, privacy
advocates and others who are concerned about questions such as
the following:

What information is routinely gathered online now, and what is
industry doing with this information?  How will the nature of the
information gathered or the uses to which it is put change in the
next few years?

What control should consumers have over personal and
transactional information?

How should consumers be able to exercise that control?

What expectations do consumers have regarding the use of
information about them?

What are the respective obligations of online service providers,
content providers, and consumers themselves to address these
privacy concerns?

Should certain uses of information be off limits without the
consumer's explicit consent?

Under what circumstances should consumers have the ability to
access and correct information about them?

Additional related topics for discussion are welcome.  The
dialogue that takes place in response to these questions will be
invaluable to the Bureau.  It will facilitate the creation
of a set of voluntary principles governing the use of consumer
information in transactions in cyberspace. 

To post messages to this list, simply address your mail to:

     privacy@ftc.gov
[..]






Rob. 

---
Send a blank message with the subject "send pgp-key" (not in
quotes) to <WlkngOwl@unix.asb.com> for a copy of my PGP key.




