From: nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)
Date: Thu, 7 Mar 1996 22:16:26 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Announce: 155mbps ATM 3DES crypto gateway
Message-ID: <199603071341.OAA29152@utopia.hacktic.nl>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Secant Network Technologies announces:
The Key Agile Encryption System is an affordable perimeter security
system that provides privacy through high speed cryptography for
information traversing public Asynchronous Transfer Mode networks.
The cryptographic units function as "bump in the fiber" security
interfaces between a secure LAN and a public network.
As data crosses this interface, the system encrypts each ATM cell's payload
without affecting the header. Encrypted cells pass through the
public network infrastructure and are decrypted upon arriving at
the destination LAN. The benefit is that the user can conduct business
as usual within the LAN and only encrypt the data as it enters
the non-secure public network (or non-secure area of a LAN).
Many individual workstations, servers or other end nodes may be protected
by a single encryption unit. The system provides privacy and access
control guarantees when using public ATM networks today, eliminating
the need to wait for implementation and availability of pending
ATM Forum security standards. System operation is transparent to
all network and end user systems.

Available: summer 1996

Physical interfaces: single mode SONET OC-3c, multi mode SONET OC-3c,
        T3 carrier, T1 carrier.

Key management: proprietary method, transparent to network and end user
        equipment, compliant with UNI 3.0/3.1 specifications. SVC's
        handled transparently, PVC support available.
        Public key based authentication. PKCS and X.509 compliant
        public key certificates are supported. Dynamic key update
        based on policy - transparent to end systems.

Key agility: up to 65,534 active VC's per cryptographic unit.
        Each active VC has a unique key.

Encryption algorithms used: triple DES for cell payload encryption,
        triple DES, RSA, and MD5 for key management.
        DES mode agility: single DES, 3DES ECB or 3DES long cycle chaining.

True hardware random number generation (Johnson noise).

Performance: full duplex encryption/decryption at the OC-3c (155Mbps) rate.
        Key management support for up to 35 secure calls per second
        Approximately 16 microseconds latency.

See: http://www.secantnet.com/ for more details and for contact information.

Based on over 2 years of ARPA funded research:
http://www.mcnc.org/HTML/ITD/ANT/Enigma2.html







