From: "Vladimir Z. Nuri" <vznuri@netcom.com>
Date: Wed, 17 Jan 1996 17:00:51 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: remarkable recent stories
Message-ID: <199601170017.QAA19922@netcom2.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



I haven't seen much dialogue on some key things that have popped up
recently of high relevance to this list; forgive me if these are covered
in threads (inappropriately named?):

1. GNN had an article in which Madsen (puzzle palace coauthor I believe)
stated that the NSA was trying to restrict anonymity by working behind
the scenes with Lotus, Microsoft, etc.  major meat for TCM's "NSA visits"
compendium assuming he's still working on it.  also, it sounds like the
most direct evidence that the NSA is working against anonymity in cyberspace, 
something that really surprises me.

2. the same article had Madsen stating that the NSA is vacuuming down
Internet traffic. he gave the likely entry points that they are doing this.
this is one of the first major credible insistences I've seen that
the NSA is doing this. (there are of course a bazillion urban legends
that the NSA does this). Madsen claimed that some private companies
were getting contracts for the work. hmmmmmmm, possibility of some
cyphersabotage here, like what went on with mycotronix? (sp?)

3. the absolute biggest blockbuster of them all: the NSA supposedly
did a study about how crypto regulations affect US competitiveness in
the international marketplace and *concluded* they were damaging it.
(surprise!!)  the Commerce Dept. has recommended *easing* export 
regulations.  

this is very notable for several reasons:
- The NSA would probably not release the study unless they were hinting
at a new policy decision. they do a bazillion studies surely but none of
them see the light of the public day. why would they release *this* one?

- the commerce dept is probably heavily influenced by the NSA-- i.e. I doubt
that they would come out with a favorable recommendation for crypto unless
the NSA approved. however, on the other hand, in the articles there was
a caveat that "if the military and spy agencies allow it". not sure what
was meant by that.

- what I wonder is if the same NSA study was more comprehensive and tried
to look at the overall implications of current or altered crypto export
policy. i.e., did they try to address the question, "what would really
happen to overall US situation if crypto were unregulated? would it mean
better business? more or less crime?" etc.  I have said this before, but
everyone seems to *assume* that unrestricted crypto necessarily releases
the 4 horsemen of the infocalypse, but what if an actual *study* was
done, that potentially *contradicts* this idea? there are many examples of
new technology being introduced that has an effect far different than
that anticipated by the masses or the conventional wisdom, and often much
more benign than expected.

- what this all suggests to me is a possible major policy/political
switch inside the NSA in which possibly someone who is more in favor of 
code making than code breaking is gaining the reigns. its tough to 
guess based on the NSA's entrails, but recent events are some pretty 
odiferous entrails, I'd be interested to here what others think.






