From: AFDA2@aol.com
Date: Wed, 28 Aug 1996 12:08:23 +0800
To: lindat@iquest.net
Subject: AFDA Web Site
Message-ID: <960827203703_395539315@emout14.mail.aol.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


MEMORANDUM

SUBJECT:  AFDA Web site, located at:  http://www.afda.org

In September, the Web site for the Association of Federal Defense Attorneys
(AFDA) will become password-protected for members only.  Those of you who
have paid your membership dues for 1996 will be receiving an email message
containing a User ID and Password, which will be good through December 31,
1997 -- almost a year and a half of unlimited usage for the small membership
fee that allows the association to continue financing the cost of maintaining
and upgrading the web site.

Once the member password system goes into effect in September, the online
Library will be stocked with research memos in many areas of federal criminal
litigation (including topics in white collar / corporate criminal
litigation), along with sample briefs and an expanded collection of court
opinions and government agency documents, all of which can be downloaded to
your hard drive.  At present, the library has all criminal law-related
Supreme Court opinions, key U.S. Sentencing Commission documents (including
the 1995 guidelines), and over 60 operations memoranda of the Bureau of
Prisons.  In addition, the online Newsletter will be expanded to add a
separate section for white collar / corporate criminal defense.  

Please note that upon installing the member-password system, the Message
Board on the web site will provide members with a private resource for
discussing strategies and issues with other colleagues, without feeling
exposed to the general web population.  We hope you will take advantage of
this opportunity and put the message board to good use.

Any of you who have not yet joined the association may do so easily by
clicking the "Join AFDA" bar at the top of the home page and completing the
membership form.

Please feel free to complete the "Feedback" form on the web site so that we
can continue to receive your comments and suggestions, a number of which have
already been incorporated into the site.  Please remember that this web site
exists to serve the educational needs of the federal criminal defense bar, so
the association counts on you to join and give us your views on how the site
can continue to serve specific needs and interests of the defense bar.

All email inquiries should be addressed to:  AFDA2@AOL.com

Best regards to all, and thanks again for your support.

Marc S. Sanders
(System Operator / Webmaster)




