From: dlv@bwalk.dm.com (Dr.Dimitri Vulis KOTM)
Date: Fri, 20 Dec 1996 18:40:26 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Pretty Lousy Privacy
In-Reply-To: <32BA9300.1716@sk.sympatico.ca>
Message-ID: <aVL0yD28w165w@bwalk.dm.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Carl Johnson <toto@sk.sympatico.ca> writes:

> Alec wrote:
> > How soon can we expect Turkish and Armenian language modules for this beta?
>
> Alec,
>   All of our Turkish programmers are dead.  All of our Armenian
> programmers'
> keyboards are screwed because of the blood dripping off of their fingers.

You may well be right. Were any of the Azeri civilians murdered by
Armenians in Khojaly computer programmers? Are any of their killers
presently employed by Earthweb as associate network administrators?


_Newsweek_ 16 March 1992

By Pascal Privat with Steve Le Vine in Moscow


             THE FACE OF A MASSACRE

Azerbaijan was a charnel house again last week:  a  place
of  mourning  refugees  and  dozens  of  mangled  corpses
dragged  to  a  makeshift morgue behind the mosque.  They
were  ordinary  Azerbaijani men, women  and  children  of
Khojaly, a  small village  in  war-torn  Nagorno-Karabakh
overrun  by  Armenian  forces on Feb.  25-26.  Many  were
killed  at  close range while trying to  flee;  some  had
their  faces  mutilated, others were scalped.  While  the
victims' families mourned,

Photo: `We will never forgive the Armenians': Azeri woman
       mourn a victim.




_The New York Times_, Tuesday, March 3, 1992


                    MASSACRE BY ARMENIANS

Agdam, Azerbaijan, March 2 (Reuters) - Fresh evidence emerged
today of a massacre of civilians by Armenian militants in
Nagorno-Karabakh, a predominantly Armenian enclave of Azerbaijan.

                         Scalping Reported

Azerbaijani officials and journalists who flew briefly to the region
by helicopter brought back three dead children with the back of their
heads blown off. They said shooting by Armenians has prevented them
from retrieving more bodies.

"Women and children have been scalped," said Assad Faradshev, an aide
to Nagorno-Karabakh's Azerbaijani Governor. "When we began to pick up
bodies, they began firing at us."

The Azerbaijani militia chief in Agdam, Rashid Mamedov, said: "The
bodies are lying there like flocks of sheep. Even the fascists did
nothing like this."

                         Truckloads of Bodies

Near Agdam on the outskirts of Nagorno-Karabakh, a Reuters photographer,
Frederique Lengaigne, said she had seen two trucks filled with Azerbaijani
bodies.

"In the first one I counted 35, and it looked as though there were as
many in the second," she said. "Some had their head cut off, and many
had been burned. They were all men, and a few had been wearing khaki
uniforms."




_The Sunday Times_ 1 March 1992

By Thomas Goltz, Agdam, Azerbaijan


    ARMENIAN SOLDIERS MASSACRE HUNDREDS OF FLEEING FAMILIES

Survivors reported that Armenian soldiers shot and bayoneted more
than 450 Azeris, many of them women and children. Hundreds, possibly
thousands, were missing and feared dead.

The attackers killed most of the soldiers and volunteers defending
the women and children. They then turned their guns on the terrified
refugees. The few survivors later described what happened: 'That's
when the real slaughter began,' said Azer Hajiev, one of three soldiers
to survive. 'The Armenians just shot and shot. And then they came in
and started carving up people with their bayonets and knives.'

'They were shooting, shooting, shooting,' echoed Rasia Aslanova, who
arrived in Agdam with other women and children who made their way
through Armenian lines. She said her husband, Kayun, and a son-in-law
were massacred in front of her. Her daughter was still missing.

One boy who arrived in Agdam had an ear sliced off.

The survivors said 2000 others, some of whom had fled separately,
were still missing in the gruelling terrain; many could perish from
their wounds or the cold.

By late yesterday, 479 deaths had been registered at the morgue in
Agdam's morgue, and 29 bodies had been buried in the cemetery. Of
the seven corpses I saw awaiting burial, two were children and three
were women, one shot through the chest at point blank range.

Agdam hospital was a scene of carnage and terror. Doctors said they
had 140 patients who escaped slaughter, most with bullet injuries or
deep stab wounds.

Nor were they safe in Agdam. On friday night rockets fell on the city
which has a population of 150,000, destroying several buildings and
killing one person.



_The Times_ 2 March 1992

              CORPSES LITTER HILLS IN KARABAKH

   (ANATOL LIEVEN COMES UNDER FIRE WHILE FLYING TO INVESTIGATE
       THE MASS KILLINGS OF REFUGEES BY ARMENIAN TROOPS)

As we swooped low over the snow-covered hills of Nagorno-Karabagh
we saw the scattered corpses. Apparently, the refugees had been
shot down as they ran. An Azerbaijani film of the places we flew
over, shown to journalists afterwards, showed DOZENS OF CORPSES
lying in various parts of the hills.

The Azerbaijanis claim that AS MANY AS 1000 have died in a MASS
KILLING of AZERBAIJANIS fleeing from the town of Khodjaly, seized
by Armenians last week. A further 4,000 are believed to be wounded,
frozen to death or missing.

The civilian helicopter's job was to land in the mountains and pick
up bodies at sites of the mass killings.

The civilian helicopter picked up four corpses, and it was during
this and a previous mission that an Azerbaijani cameraman filmed
the several dozen bodies on the hillsides.

Back at the airfield in Agdam, we took a look at the bodies the
civilian helicopter had picked up. Two old men a small girl were
covered with blood, their limbs contorted by the cold and rigor
mortis. They had been shot.




_TIME_ March 16, 1992


By Jill SMOLOWE

-Reported by Yuri ZARAKHOVICH/Moscow


          M A S S A C R E  I N  K H O J A L Y

While the details are argued, this much is plain: something grim
and unconscionable happened in the Azerbaijani town of Khojaly
two weeks ago. So far, some 200 dead Azerbaijanis, many of them
mutilated, have been transported out of the town tucked inside
the Armenian-dominated enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh for burial in
neighboring Azerbaijan. The total number of deaths - the Azerbaijanis
claim 1,324 civilians have been slaughtered, most of them women and
children - is unknown.

Videotapes circulated by the Azerbaijanis include images of defaced
civilians, some of them scalped, others shot in the head.




_BBC1 Morning News at 07.37, Tuesday 3 March 1992_

BBC reporter was live on line and he claimed that he saw more
than 100 bodies of Azeri men, women and children as well as a
baby who are shot dead from their heads from a very short distance.

_BBC1 Morning News at 08:12, Tuesday 3 March 1992_

Very disturbing picture has shown that many civilian corpses
who were picked up from mountain. Reporter said he, cameraman
and Western Journalists have seen more than 100 corpses, who
are men, women, children, massacred by Armenians. They have
been shot dead from their heads as close as 1 meter. Picture
also has shown nearly ten bodies (mainly women and children)
are shot dead from their heads. Azerbaijan claimed that more
than 1000 civilians massacred by Armenian forces.

_Channel 4 News at 19.00, Monday 2 March 1992_

2 French journalists have seen 32 corpses of men, women and
children in civilian clothes. Many of them shot dead from
their heads as close as less than 1 meter.


_Report from Karabakpress_

A merciless massacre of the civilian population of the small
Azeri town of Khojali (Population 6000) in Karabagh, Azerbaijan,
is reported to have taken place on the night of February 28 by
the Soviet Armenian Army. Close to 1000 people are reported to
have been massacred. Elderly and children were not spared. Many
were badly beaten and shot at close range. A sense of rage and
helplessness has overwhelmed the Azeri population in face of the
well armed and equipped Armenian Army. The neighboring Azeri city
of Aghdam outside of the Karabagh region has come under heavy
Armenian artillery shelling. City hospital was hit and two pregnant
women as well as a new born infant were killed. Azerbaijan is appealing
to the international community to condemn such barbaric and ruthless
attacks on its population and its sovereignty.


---

Dr.Dimitri Vulis KOTM
Brighton Beach Boardwalk BBS, Forest Hills, N.Y.: +1-718-261-2013, 14.4Kbps




