From: "Attila T. Hun" <attila@primenet.com>
Date: Mon, 30 Dec 1996 00:36:19 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks <cypherpunks@toad.com>
Subject: Just another government fuckover: New crypto regulations
Message-ID: <199612300837.BAA02719@infowest.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

        books are and have been protected prior to the US Constitution. 
    one can presume books with crypto source code would be protected 
    accordingly; one Federal judge (Patel in SF) has ruled source code 
    is protected under freedom of speech and therefore can be published; 
    yet another judge in the Washington area has ruled it is not.  There 
    is no question the feds will appeal Patel's ruling in the Ninth 
    Circuit (known to be pro rights in general, but difficult to 
    predict).  eventually it will go to the US Supreme Court.

        my personal opinion is the Supreme Court will rule against it 
    using a rationale that the actual source code sections of a book can 
    be classified as can any other intellectual property under the 
    National Security Act. Secondly, they will not consider that form of 
    speech an inalienable right. 

        I had my rounds with the bastards years ago, no fucking humour 
    whatsoever, and prone to use the IRS to enforce what the courts 
    could not afford to enforce due to the requirements of disclosure in 
    the courtroom at the time (which have since been plugged); and if 
    that does not work, set you up for financial fraud, fraud by wire, 
    or dope.  Today dope is the perfect charge; it has been whipped into 
    a frenzy by the feds and their CIA infiltrated media.  let me assure 
    any doubters the real extent of terror which the spooks can apply.

        the US Government has not been a legal government for years; it 
    is a private club which can be bought, and its services sold to the 
    highest bidder.  It is a collection of whores who are part of a 
    cabal of the very rich and powerful; it is totally unaccountable 
    to the public it represents.  Waco, Ruby Ridge, and the bombing of 
    their own federal building in Oklahoma City in order to scare Joe 
    Couch Potato into giving up personal freedoms for security are 
    perfect examples of a government drunk on it owns powers.  Just like 
    Oswald, they have a perfect patsy with the defendants in OKC.

        P.J. O'Rourke states it correctly:

            "And the Clinton administration launched an attack
                on people in Texas because those people were
                religious nuts with guns.
            Hell, this country was founded by religious nuts with guns."
           
        O'Rourke also said:

             "Giving money and power to the government is like
                giving whiskey and car keys to teenaged boys"

    and there is no better example than the cocaine stoned, reckless 
    mentality of Bill Clinton.

        an important fact to keep in mind in US judicial review: few of 
    the judges can be relied on 1) to resist pressure from the Feds and 
    2) to take the rights of the people seriously and as 'inalienable 
    rights.'  this may sound pessimistic and cynical, but the courts 
    have been sliding, in some cases rather quickly, to a position that 
    echoes the UN Bill of Rights:

        the UN's "International Covenant on Civil and Political
        Rights" (ICCR): Article 18 states that "everyone shall 
        have	the right to freedom of thought, conscience and
	    religion" but specifies that "freedom to manifest one's 
        religions or beliefs may be subject only to such 
        limitations as are prescribed by law and necessary..."

        in other words, I do not think we will see the feds permit the 
    use of books to export cryptography.  this almost becomes irrelevant 
    outside the academic world in the provisions of the regs which 
    effectively block hardware or software products and in effect seem 
    to cut off the loophole of US companies funding overseas operations 
    and importing the results, etc.  the new regs basically ban it all 
    ways.  and the new regs are not the supposedly improved and friendly
    versions promised --they are draconian.

        books are an intellectual 'solution' to the problem. the real 
    problem is the hardware. in order to negate governments and their 
    virtually stated intentions of blocking our inalienable freedoms, 
    particularly freedom of speach, we must be able to distribute 
    universal crypto worldwide, and be able to improve it as the shadow 
    governments of the various spook shows improve their ability to 
    break our code.

        this last round on the ITARs blew out distribution.  asking 
    visitors to your web sites if they are U.S. citizens is not going to 
    be sufficient for Bubba's goons: Janet Reno and Jamie Gorlich.

        the only real solution is guerilla warfare; anonymous 
    distribution; overseas' establishment of clearing houses for updates 
    and source code. 

        freedom of information is just that simple; there are no 
    compromises.  Patrick Henry said: 

        "Give me Liberty or Give me Death."

        publish, publish, and civil disobedience. Patrick Henry used 
    handbills. 

        knowledge is knowledge --get it in the public domain, and 
    in the public's hands even if you must go door to door like a 
    fuller brush salesman...  but your product is free and it is for 
    their freedom.

        don't waste your time getting out the vote; get out there and 
    fight.  contribute.

        if you do not have the balls to do it, you are not for freedom.

        the only natural cure for corrupt government is bright sunshine.
    and a rope.
 
  ==
    Tyranny Insurance by Colt Manufacturing Co.


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.6.3i
Charset: latin1
Comment: Encrypted with 2.6.3i. Requires 2.6 or later.

iQCVAwUBMsd+nb04kQrCC2kFAQGxVQP5AUM06j8anB3MLUzMUe8WjOqhVwPjSd7d
RhaGyrRwAdSpU1CPSYNX9+zsTnaJtgsN0rQYLrbKQD1eKDPKAQlnz5vJ6SAVhRwi
nNF2e4Pj/wD7SVBwHFmjsaOpWmNx9+ON++/EZNbs3c3nH/2n7tiC7eJJcte+apNE
G3lwdSSxXhU=
=MD+E
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----





