From: mpd@netcom.com (Mike Duvos)
Date: Mon, 22 Jan 96 22:36:37 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: SS Obergruppenfuhrer Zimmermann (NOT!)
Message-ID: <199601230635.WAA22844@netcom19.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Anonymous User <nobody@c2.org> writes:

 > "Private communications between neo-Nazis on the network are
 > effected under a program called "Pretty Good Privacy",
 > devised by an American neo-Nazi sympathiser."

 > Robin Gedye (in Bonn) p.23 of "The Sunday Telegraph"
 > January 21, 1996

Before anyone takes this nonsense too seriously, one should
realize that the exhibition of such microscopic views of
technology by journalists and politicians is fairly common.

Who can forget Caspar Weinburger's stirring speech in front of an
illegally exported low-end VAX, explaining that the machine was a
sophisticated electronic device for the tracking of missiles and
troop movements, now in the hands of America's enemies.

Then there was the newspaper article which explained in perfect
seriousness that "GIF" was a secret computer code used by child
molesters to encode images of their victims.

Characterizing PGP as a neo-Nazi tool for private communications
written by a sympathizer, while absurd in a larger sense, is
hardly sillier than the prior examples.  And all such scenarios
contain a microscopic grain of truth as seen by someone somewhere
with a severe case of tunnel vision.

The reporter no doubt reports correctly that some neo-Nazis use
PGP to communicate privately.  Doubtless PKZ supports the right
of all people, including those with diverse political views, to
conduct legal private conversations which cannot be overheard by
their governments, as do most of the people on this list.  I
suppose in some obtuse sense this is sympathy.

It is highly unlikely that anyone who uses Cypherpunk technology
is as ignorant as this reporter.  So let's just mail the poor guy
a clue and move on.  Things like this happen often, and it's not
really worth a prolongued debate.

--
     Mike Duvos         $    PGP 2.6 Public Key available     $
     mpd@netcom.com     $    via Finger.                      $




