From: nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)
Date: Thu, 18 Jan 1996 13:15:22 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Attack Simulator
Message-ID: <199601180250.DAA29088@utopia.hacktic.nl>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Internet Scanner Software Checks Network Security 
     
Atlanta, Jan. 17 -- Internet Security Systems has
released version 3.2 of its Internet Scanner software. 
The company said the program is an "attack simulator"
that tests your organization's network for security
holes.  

ISS said Internet Scanner 3.2 has enhanced reporting
capabilities and added tests for more than 130 security
vulnerabilities, including the recently revealed
Microsoft File Sharing bug. "Our added focus on Microsoft
security holes stems from our customers' rapid adoption
of TCP/IP (Transmission Control Protocol/Internet
Protocol)-enabled Microsoft Windows NT and Windows 95,"
said Chris Klaus, founder and chief executive officer of
ISS.  

According to Don Ulsch, a security consultant affiliated
with the National Security Institute in Westborough,
Massachusetts, The movement to Windows 95 created a whole
new set of security concerns for network administrators.
"Similar to virus scanning software, a security scanning
tools' value to a corporation declines quickly unless it
can detect the latest security holes. In the security 
arena, every upgrade is crucial," said Ulsch.  

New features of Internet Scanner 3.2 include added
reporting capabilities including hyperlinks that connect
to CERT advisories and vendor World Wide Web sites to
pull down patches and information regarding network
holes, and addition of Linux as a supported platform. The
company said that will allow easy scanning from laptop
PCs.  

The additional tests added to the new version include the
Microsoft File Sharing bug, the TelnetD bug, the Stealth
Scan, Finger Bomb, and misconfigured Linux NIS services. 

The company said its customers who have current
maintenance contracts can now electronically download the
updated version from the USS Web home page at
http://iss.net.  

Internet Security Systems, tel 770-441-2531, fax
770-441-2431  











