From: jya@pipeline.com (John Young)
Date: Fri, 30 Aug 1996 16:00:49 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: LAT_ice
Message-ID: <199608300139.BAA03404@pipe6.t1.usa.pipeline.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


   8-23-96. Science: 
 
   "Lattices May Put Security Codes on a Firmer Footing." 
 
      Miklos Ajtai, a mathematician at IBM Almaden, has 
      provided the kind of guarantee of hardness that 
      cryptographers are looking for. He has proved that 
      examples picked at random from a particular class of 
      problems are, with exceedingly rare exceptions, as 
      hard to solve as the hardest ones imaginable. A code 
      that embedded messages in these problems so that only 
      someone equipped with the answers could decode them 
      would provide something close to a guarantee of 
      security. 
 
   8-29-96. WaJo: 
 
   "Cybersleuths Help Make Java Safe for Browsers." 
 
      Over the past year, Wallach, Dean, Felten and Balfanz  
      have become self-styled policemen for some of the 
      hottest Internet software around. Like many fellow 
      hackers, they find thrills in the search for others' 
      mistakes. But unlike some of their brethren, they're 
      using their skills to make the software better by 
      informing the companies of their findings, rather than 
      exploiting the errors maliciously. 
 
   ----- 
 
   http://pwp.usa.pipeline.com/~jya/latice.txt  (13kb for 2) 
 
   LAT_ice 
 
---------- 
 
   Seth Lloyd, MIT, has a 5-page report on "Universal  
   Quantum Simulators" in Science of 23 August, which  
   confirms Feynman's 1982 conjecture that quantum  
   computers can be programmed to simulate any local  
   quantum system. 
 
   There are quite a few equations so we have not scanned  
   it to .txt. However, we will scan as JPEG images for  
   those who are interested. 
 
   Send us a blank message with subject UQS_fey. 
    
   There will be a delay to honor knothead labor, me. 
 
 
 
 




