From: nobody@cypherpunks.ca (John Anonymous MacDonald)
Date: Mon, 18 Nov 1996 12:23:29 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: [NOISE] aga isn't on cypherpunks... (and I'm glad)
In-Reply-To: <Pine.LNX.3.95.961118101854.21676O-100000@dhp.com>
Message-ID: <199611182006.MAA24108@abraham.cs.berkeley.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


> From: aga <aga@dhp.com>
> 
> Maybe because John Gilmore is a faggot and takes it up
> the ass.  That was the real reason behind the clash.  Dr. Vulis
> just does not like Faggots, and Gilmore has admitted to being queer.

So why did Vulis drag the rest of this mailing list into his disputes?
If this is about homosexuality, wouldn't alt.fag.bashing have been a
more appropriate forum for his insults.  This mailing list is about
cryptography and loosely related political issues.  It seems that
several allegedly gay members of the mailing list have a lot more to
contribute on the subject than you or Vulis.  Perhaps you somehow
disagree, but so what?  In either case you must admit that insults
based on sexual orientation are not relevant to this mailing list.

> The one thing must be said about the Internet is that Faggots are
> not allowed to have any Authority positions, and this John Gilmore
> Faggot violates that rule.

They're not?  Where did you get that?  First of all, what do you
define as an Authority position in a completely decentralized network
like the internet?  Are you talking about being a member of IANA or
working for the internic or something?  In that case there clearly is
no such restriction (in fact, any such restriction would probably
result in serious legal problems for the organization that tried to
set such policy).

> Never trust anybody who does not fuck cunt.

Why not?  Is there something obvious I'm missing?  What does someone's
sexual orientation have to do with his or her trustworthiness?

Can you please explain what your point is, and why you need to make it
on cypherpunks?  I mean if you resent John Gilmore being in a position
of authority because for some reason you think he is gay and that
bothers you, why use a mailing list he controls to spread that
message, as you are giving him control over your communications?  I
think most of the people on this mailing list don't give a shit about
anyone's sexual orientation.  You and Vulis have made your point that
you think certain members are gay.  Apparently most of the remaining
members of the list don't believe you and/or don't care.  What more
are you trying to accomplish?

Thanks.




