From: Rich Graves <llurch@networking.stanford.edu>
Date: Thu, 8 Feb 1996 08:03:56 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: [SSP] Hack China Contest, and some more showboating
Message-ID: <Pine.ULT.3.91.960206215553.23829F-100000@Networking.Stanford.EDU>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

FYI, Rich continues to play the media gadfly in tomorrow's editions of The
Guardian (UK), taz (Berlin), and the San Jose Mercury News. 

Sameer's friendly web script said people kept trying to link to my
nonexistent home page at http://www.c2.org/~rich/, so I made one, below,
which I though you might find amusing. 


China attempts to control Internet 
     -Andrew Higgins, in The Guardian, 4 February 1996 

               China thinks they can control the Internet. 
                        They will be proven wrong. 


                               Hack China!


A new contest has been formed to reveal security flaws in The Great
Firewall of China. Exploits and detailed descriptions are needed. Hack
China and win a T-Shirt. Satirical contest not sponsored by Community
ConneXion. We have not issued a press release covering this promotion, so
this link will just return an error. 

Let's see what China does when the world finds out that subverting
murderous totalitarian dictatorships is trivial in the modern age. More
details will appear in the coming days. Last updated February 6, 1996. Do
not send your hacks to hackchina@c2.org , because that address does not,
in fact, exist, and will only return an error, making you look like a
fool. 

To merit an award, an exploit must be made publicly available. Also note
that "hack" connotes affirmative effort on your part to investigate and
expose encryption and security architectures. Merely finding bugs,
officials susceptible to bribery, and common configuration errors is not a
"hack,"  and will not be credited on this page, though you can report such
problems to rich@c2.org. We may be supporting an "other problems with
totalitarianism" page in the future, but other forums are probably more
appropriate. 

Taiwan (also known as the Republic of China) is a province of China not
recognized as a separate nation-state by the United Nations (indeed, even
Taiwan doesn't claim independence). The official name of China is the
People's Republic of China, which is not a registered trademark, but they
do have nuclear weapons, so you should still take them seriously. If
you're in Hong Kong, get out while you still can. This propotion does not
exist and is not affiliated with China, Taiwan, or Hong Kong. 

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.6.2

iQCVAwUBMRhBT43DXUbM57SdAQFicQP/aj5ClU4YAEsm1XVWTYTvA8cHDo8cGN3O
1tN0y6LGfFaWbcl+IldjZ4OuMTRjlx50c3EZTItw7PniVP/KjySotMmbAIusLVek
PsMjMRtnyUJOY9Z/bAVkgepAN7NqpE9YXxEeNNUVrkzbicRgn35GaWjWrydI9EkW
72Xv5rhcs4c=
=3fYn
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----




