From: "Perry E. Metzger" <perry@piermont.com>
Date: Tue, 2 Jul 1996 02:25:19 +0800
To: Charles Watt <watt@sware.com>
Subject: Re: rsync and md4
In-Reply-To: <9607011359.AA15838@mordred.sware.com>
Message-ID: <199607011419.KAA20986@jekyll.piermont.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Charles Watt writes:
> How typically Perry.  

Thank you for the compliment. I know that you think my comments are
evidence that I am nasty and that you think this is an insult, but my
clients seem to think this sort of thing is evidence that I'm
uncompromising in trying to maintain the security of their
systems. Everyone here knows my reputation. I may have a rough edge to
me, but people by now know that my advice is generally right on the
money. The fact that I have a reputation pleases me -- it does not
disturb me.

> Perry, as you are so fond of quoting Dobbertin, let me forward once again to 
> the list Hans' analysis of the "crack" that he discovered.  He explicitly 
> agrees with Mr. Ogren's analysis.

No, he doesn't. Dobbertin's privately circulated document is entitled
"Cryptanalysis of MD5", not "Possible weaknesses in MD5". The MD4
results were even more damning. It is true that the attacks aren't
general, but they are bad enough that the key property of
cryptographic hashes -- that it is computationally infeasable to
produce two documents with the same hash (note that the property is
NOT that you cannot produce a document with the same hash as a
document selected by the opponent), has been broken. Chosen plaintext,
in particular, is completely broken.

Dobbertin explicitly says that although there is no reason to panic,
that MD5 is not to be trusted.

I quote from your quote of Dobbertin:

      5. My conclusions are: no reason for panic, but in future
      implementations better move away from MD5.

> Yes it is prudent to move away from MD5.  But there are still plenty
> of uses where it is more than sufficient.

Yeah, like if you are looking for a wacky checksum and not a
cryptographic hash.

Look the point is that Ogren seems to think this is some sort of a
minor technicality and that we can safely ignore it most of the
time. Thats simply not prudent. Once you find that the key properties
of your cryptographic hash have fallen and you have to be
exceptionally careful about what you put through the hash lest an
attacker somehow influence it, you've lost the game. MD5 is no longer
trustworthy. I agree that one needn't run screaming in the streets,
but Ogren made it sound as though this wasn't a matter of
concern. Thats simply wrong. Saying that leads people to a completely
incorrect conclusion.

Perry




