From: "Vladimir Z. Nuri" <vznuri@netcom.com>
Date: Sat, 9 Mar 1996 06:16:55 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: steganographic trick
Message-ID: <199603072228.OAA24671@netcom18.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain




here is an interesting trick/algorithm that I've not seen before, although I
admit I'm not intimately familiar with all the crypto formulas that
others here may be aware of, so this may have been toyed with before.

in pondering steganography, it seems to me there could be made a 
distinction between two types. in the "classic" type, say hiding
data in the low bits of a digitized image, the whole existence
of an encrypted "covert" message is totally concealed. that is,
not only is the message concealed but the existence of it is
as well.

now consider a different kind of steganography, in which it is
clear there is an encrypted piece of data. the problem with
all steganographic crypto is that to use your data, you have to
have your stego tools handy, and the "feds" could see these tools
and accuse you of hiding data.

imagine an application where you freely admit that you have your
cryptographic tools, and that you are even willing to tell the
"feds" the key for your data. they run the crypto program, and
indeed the file decrypts. however, unknown to them, you have given
them a key that decrypts the file into something meaningful yet
benign, such as a cookie recipe, not
your plans for the overthrow of the state. in other words, 
"interlaced" or "coincident" within the same file is your secret
data. given one key, it decrypts into one set of data, and given
another key, it decrypts into another set of data.

there are probably many different ways to do this. of course the distinction
of what I am proposing and two different files, each with different
keys (which is already feasible), is not all that crisp. anyway, 
I pursued this anyway to come up with an algorithm.

pick a large prime, P. now pick two other large primes that are less
than sqrt(P), P1, P2 (actually all that is required is that P1*P2 < P). 
 the data in the file is organized into blocks of information modulo P. 
P1 is the "harmless" key for message 1 (M1), and P2 is the "real" key for
message 2 (M2).

now the trick is to put data into your file one "piece" at a time
such that it decrypts into either the corresponding "piece" of M1
given decryption by P1, or M2 given P2. I think some people can
anticipate what comes next: the encoding of the data for M1 is
contained in the "segment M" modulo P1, and M2 is contained modulo P2.

the chinese remainder theorem lets us find the unique number N such
that N mod P1 = M1, and N mod P2 = M2. "N" is the data that is stored
in the file.

I'm being a little sloppy in notation here: the overall message
is broken into segments mod P-- the above algorithm is simply repeated
over each "segment".

given all the caveats about complexity of factoring etc., if P1, P2
are large and not "close" to each other (i.e. one could find P1 by
searching in the "vicinity" of P2), this would be a secure algorithm
as far as I can tell.

to decrypt, the file is broken up into pieces mod P, and then each
of these pieces has a value mod P1 or mod P2 that is used as the
value of that piece.

hence, we have an algorithm in which data is stored "coincident" or "adjacent"
in a file. the feds could potentially observe that the key you give
them, P1 < sqrt(P), and realize that there is "room" left over to store a 
secret message.  but if you store all your files that way, they have
nothing to go on. in fact you could assert, "yes, that was once a file
with two messages in it, but I deleted the other one. it's key used to
be Px". Px is a random number.

of course, this method could be expanded so that any file has any number
of secret pieces interspersed in it, each only available given knowledge
of its secret key.

again, the same thing can be accomplished by concatenating multiple
files, each with a different key, or even alternating bytes or bits
in a file, but I thought it would be interesting
to find something that had this "coincident" or "adjacent" property 
based on the modulo and large prime properties used everywhere in
modern crypto.





