From: Dale Thorn <dthorn@gte.net>
Date: Fri, 20 Dec 1996 21:12:15 -0800 (PST)
To: Rich Graves <rcgraves@disposable.com>
Subject: Re: Dale defends free society from the NSApunks (was Re: Encryption ?
In-Reply-To: <199612201325.OAA03035@basement.replay.com>
Message-ID: <32BB7144.3A8A@gte.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Rich Graves wrote:
> Stop bashing Dale, you ADL/CFR/NSA thought police, you.
> Name Withheld by Request wrote:
> > I thought this was so funny I've saved it.
> > Perhaps we could vote on the quality of Dale's ideas and arrive
> > at an estimate of the proportion of NSA supporters on the list.

Critical thinking is hard enough, then having to research and document
your findings and get someone or someplace to distribute them, well,
it's too hard for most folks.

So most folks fall into these camps (or others perhaps):

Those who accept the conventional wisdom, i.e., Oswald did it, or,
Nurnberg was a real showdown, where the world got justice for the
Nazi atrocities.

Those who oppose the conventional wisdom with truly unsubstantiated
conspiracy theories:  Karen Silkwood was programmed to drive off the
road by a psychotronic computer located in Brussels which uses satellites
to send the beams of energy to the victims' brains.

Doing the hard work is not only hard, but depressing when nobody reads
it.  Probably a lot of people find the IHR (formerly Carto) publications
more interesting than the rather mindless crap put out by the ADL, to
name an example.

Telling people about the Holocaust ad nauseam here in 1996, which the
L.A. Times for instance does a lot, doesn't accomplish what I believe
is the stated objective, i.e., to prevent a reoccurence, not only against
Jews, but against all so-called undesirables.

Cypherpunks are not the only people who give plausible argument against
interference in places like Bosnia, but the fact that they do, and that
mass killings are still sanctioned for all sorts of erstwhile valid and/
or practical reasons, puts a serious challenge to the Holocaust promoters:
What exactly are you trying to do?

If Albert Einstein can promote the A-bomb to the President, knowing it
will kill hundreds of thousands of erstwhile innocent people at a single
burst, what is the point of continuing the propaganda?  To finance more
bombs so we can kill more Hitler supporters?  Sadaam was compared to
Hitler, but Ramsey Clark didn't buy it.  Lots of people who made lots
of money investing in Nazi Germany are still selling well in the U.S.
Know any Jews who drive Fords? Read the Int'l Jew crap by Henry Himself.

Look at the Godfather movie when Al Pacino is walking through the town
in Sicily, and there are no men to be seen.  He says "Where are all the
men?", and the girl with him says "ALL DEAD - died in vendettas".





