From: Hallam-Baker <hallam@ai.mit.edu>
Date: Thu, 13 Jun 1996 12:00:21 +0800
To: Robert Hettinga <rah@shipwright.com>
Subject: Re: Britain to control crypto - official (fwd from Usenet)
In-Reply-To: <4plte7$70i@life.ai.mit.edu>
Message-ID: <31BF3BCA.794B@ai.mit.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Robert Hettinga wrote:
> 
> > The British government quietly announced yesterday that it will
> > legislate to restrict crypto.

This could be a problem. The government is pretty burned out having run out of
ideas a long time ago. Interferring with areas the people understand little of
is a way to avoid making worse mistakes.

Given that we have the worst Home Secretary this century there is little hope
that civil liberties will play any part in any legislation. For those that
don't follow UK politics the government has been methodically extinguishing
civil rights such as the right to demonstrate in public and the right of a
defendant to premptory challenge agains jurors (the prosecution retains the
right).

The key question is how urgently the govt intends to press the point. If they
attach a provision to pre-election criminal justice bill then expect a really
half baked clause. If they go for public comment gathering proceedures then
the govt. is likely to be out of office before anything happens.  With less
than half the public support of the opposition Bob Dole stands more chance of
election than the British Tories.
 
> Does anyone here have any idea what this does to british-affiliated states
> like Anguilla, or the Caymans?

Nothing in the case of most dependent territories. Most territories are either
entirely self governing or have some body which "assists" the govenor. 

Given that we have yet to unify English and Scottish law the process of making
laws is quite complex. Presumably the govt intend to pass laws covering the
whole of the UK, what mechanism they choose for this we will have to wait to
find out.

I would expect the Caymans to act to protect their tax-haven business. This
could mean that they are pro crypto (increase effectiveness) or may mean that
they go anti to avoid being seen as money laundering havens and invite Cuba
style sanctions acts.


		Phill




