From: tcmay@got.net (Timothy C. May)
Date: Sun, 11 Feb 1996 15:44:15 +0800
To: "A. Padgett Peterson P.E. Information Security" <cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Choices
Message-ID: <ad42b792440210044a29@[205.199.118.202]>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


At 4:05 AM 2/11/96, "A. Padgett Peterson P.E. Information Security"
>Think I have been consistant - am FOR things which add to my choices and
>AGAINST those which reduce the choices available. In general I do not
>mind paying a delta for increased choice so long as it is small

No, I don't think you're consistent. "Tim's Fine Televison Sets" does not
like the idea of having to put CC (and, soon, V-Chips) in its t.v.s. Men
with guns are telling him he must comply, or else.

Your "am FOR things which add to my choices" ignores the fact that
mandatory closed-caption hardware is an infringement on the basic property
rights of someone who offers products for sale.

Those who want CC devices, or V-chip devices, or automatic text-to-speech
converters are of course free to buy them, if someone is selling them. They
are not free to demand that my widget include them.

--Tim

[This Bible excerpt awaiting review under the Communications Decency Act]
And then Lot said, "I have some mighty fine young virgin daughters. Why
don't you boys just come on in and fuck them right here in my house - I'll just
watch!"....Later, up in the mountains, the younger daughter said. "Dad's
getting old. I say we should fuck him." So the two daughters got him drunk and
screwed him all that night. Sure enough, Dad got them pregnant....Onan really
hated the idea of doing his brother's wife and getting her pregnant while
his brother got all the credit, so he pulled out before he
came....Remember, it's not a good idea to have sex with your sister, your
brother, your parents,
your pet dog, or the farm animals, unless God tells you to. [excerpts from
the Old Testament, Modern Vernacular Translation, TCM, 1996]






