From: dlv@bwalk.dm.com (Dr. Dimitri Vulis)
Date: Sat, 24 Feb 1996 14:08:03 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Look, a chain letter :-)
Message-ID: <uR6qJD17w165w@bwalk.dm.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


I received a curious mimetic e-mail. The cypherpunks relevance is: will we
or will we not bring down the White House server? :-)

---------- Forwarded message ----------

To whoever may read this,

This is not a typical chain letter, in that by passing it on to as many
people as you can, you are taking part in what may yet become the
world's biggest practical joke. The U.S. Government has recently passed
an act which enforces censorship on the internet. A group of internet
users has now come together to kick back at this oppression, and have a
bit of fun at the same time.

The aim of this exercise is to re-establish the United States as "The
Land of the Free", not a fascist state where freedom of speech and
thought are curtailed. Communist Russia fell as a result of such limits
being placed upon the minds of the general populus.

On receiving this letter, please pass it on to as many friends or
E-mail lists as you can. We predict that if everybody copies the letter
to 5 other addresses, by February 29th 1996, this letter should have
reached in excess of 2 million people. That's when the fun
begins........

On February 29th, please send the message:

Dear Mr. President,

Do you remember this:

And afterwards enclose the pre-typed copy of the Bill of Rights. By
sending the letter on the date above, you will contribute to either one
huge petition for freedom, or else lead to a crash of the White House
server.

Send all letters to:

President@Whitehouse.gov

Remember that solidarity is the key to success



                              THE BILL OF RIGHTS





  Amendment I



   Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion,
   or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom
   of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to
   assemble, and to petition the government for a redress of
   grievances.



  Amendment II



   A well regulated militia, being necessary to the security of a free
   state, the right of the people to keep and bear arms, shall not be
   infringed.



  Amendment III



   No soldier shall, in time of peace be quartered in any house,
   without the consent of the owner, nor in time of war, but in a
   manner to be prescribed by law.



  Amendment IV



   The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses,
   papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures,
   shall not be violated, and no warrants shall issue, but upon
   probable cause, supported by oath or affirmation, and particularly
   describing the place to be searched, and the persons or things to be
   seized.



  Amendment V



   No person shall be held to answer for a capital, or otherwise
   infamous crime, unless on a presentment or indictment of a grand
   jury, except in cases arising in the land or naval forces, or in the
   militia, when in actual service in time of war or public danger; nor
   shall any person be subject for the same offense to be twice put in
   jeopardy of life or limb; nor shall be compelled in any criminal
   case to be a witness against himself, nor be deprived of life,
   liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor shall private
   property be taken for public use, without just compensation.



  Amendment VI



   In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right to a
   speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury of the state and
   district wherein the crime shall have been committed, which district
   shall have been previously ascertained by law, and to be informed of
   the nature and cause of the accusation; to be confronted with the
   witnesses against him; to have compulsory process for obtaining
   witnesses in his favor, and to have the assistance of counsel for
   his defense.



  Amendment VII



   In suits at common law, where the value in controversy shall exceed
   twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury shall be preserved, and
   no fact tried by a jury, shall be otherwise reexamined in any court
   of the United States, than according to the rules of the common law.



  Amendment VIII



   Excessive bail shall not be required, nor excessive fines imposed,
   nor cruel and unusual punishments inflicted.



  Amendment IX



   The enumeration in the Constitution, of certain rights, shall not be
   construed to deny or disparage others retained by the people.



  Amendment X



   The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution,
   nor prohibited by it to the states, are reserved to the states
   respectively, or to the people.




---

Dr. Dimitri Vulis
Brighton Beach Boardwalk BBS, Forest Hills, N.Y.: +1-718-261-2013, 14.4Kbps




