From: Rick Smith <smith@sctc.com>
Date: Wed, 1 May 1996 14:30:39 +0800
To: mpd@netcom.com
Subject: Re: The Joy of Java
Message-ID: <199604302303.SAA27753@shade.sctc.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Scott Brickner <sjb@universe.digex.net> quoted the Princeton
paper's concerns about Java's lack of a formal semantic basis,
and mpd@netcom.com (Mike Duvos) replied:

>This is overly pessimistic.  Java primitive data types are fully
>specified and Java operators are well-defined in the sense that
>their results are unambiguous with specified input.  ...

Having some familiarity with application of formal methods to computer
security, I'd like to point out a few things.

>Saying that the current specification does not support formal
>proofs of correctness is far different than saying that the
>language itself is broken.

The experience in the multilevel security world was that a weak or
nonexistent specification pretty much guaranteed that there would be
holes in the design -- limitations that kept you from being able to
block covert channels or other flaws in the kernel.

Language design is as tough a problem, if not more so. Brinch Hansen
told a story over a decade ago about how he tried to specify a
language with good semantics, and had Tony Hoare review his attempts.
There always seemed to be a flaw somewhere and they weren't trying to
capture object semantics back then, just types. So, in the absense of
rigor there's probably not much sense in assuming correctness.

>... he is not saying that the type verifier isn't correct,
>merely that the materials with which to construct a proof have
>not yet been dumped on top of his desk.

When doing formal specification of a high assurance MLS system, a
large proportion of flaws were found simply through the process of
producing the formal specifications, both of the device design and of
the security requirements. A large proportion of the design flaws are
found while doing the formal proofs.

Note that Java operating in the Internet environment acquires two sets
of security requirements: the original ones for the language plus
another set that applies to the platform (workstation) it runs on. The
former set of requirements were pretty thoroughly worked out, though
it doesn't appear that they were ever formalized. This seems to be
the primary topic of discussion here, but not the only one.

As of last winter, when I last checked into it, the latter set of
requirements hadn't been specified in any reasonable detail. Such a
spec would reflect the security requirements for running on a
workstation that requires some measure of confidentiality. For
example, consider the CEO's workstation: the SEC has rules about
keeping certain things secret, and that stuff tends to live in files
on a CEO's workstation. Of course, the problem also applies to anyone
who has unwrapped PGP keys lying about when some applet turns
malicious.

>In any case, the anarchy of the free market rarely takes notice
>of the theoretical musings of academicians.  Until Java
>experiences a catastrophic and public train wreck, people will
>continue to use it and its reputation will continue to grow.

The only reason MLS systems were formally specified and analyzed was
because the DOD wanted to avoid a computer based train wreck involving
intelligence data or other stuff of comparable sensitivity. They had
money and market clout, at least when they started.

Rick.
smith@sctc.com          secure computing corporation




