From: John Fricker <jfricker@vertexgroup.com>
Date: Fri, 11 Oct 1996 14:11:17 -0700 (PDT)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Burma bans modems
Message-ID: <19961011211025088.AAA101@dev.vertexgroup.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


    From: George Sadowsky <George.Sadowsky@nyu.edu>
    Subject: Re: Burma Bans modems
    Here is the text of the web page referenced below:

    RANGOON, BURMA, 1996 SEP 27 (NB) -- Burma has made owning, using,
    importing or borrowing a modem or fax machine without government
    permission a crime, punishable by up to 15 years in jail, according
    to a report by United Press International.

    Burma's military government has imposed what's called "The Computer
    Science Development Law" which empowers the Ministry of
    Communications, Posts and Telegraphs to specify what exactly can be
    restricted, UPI reports.

    UPI quotes the government-run newspaper New Light of Myanmar as
    saying the same punishment is prescribed for anyone who sets up a
    link with a computer network without the prior permission of the
    ministry, or who uses computer network and information technology
    "for undermining state security, law and order, national unity,
    national economy and national culture, or who obtains or transmits
    state secrets."

    UPI reports that in July a diplomat, Leo Nichols, died in prison
    after he was sentenced to a lengthy term for illegal possession of
    fax machines.

    It's clear from this action that the SLORC, i.e. the "State Law and
    Order Restoration Committee" (sic!) understands full well the
    benefits and importance of the Internet and other forms of
    electronic communication to open societies, and is determined to
    deny these benefits to its citizens.  Given its recent history and
    the quasi-imprisonment of Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, this new action is
    perfectly consistent with the government's previous abysmal
    record.

    Countries who would deny open Internet access to its citizens might
    well pause to consider if they wish to be associated with the
    current government of Myanmar in doing so.


    George Sadowsky, Director                     Voice: +1.212.998.3040
    Academic Computing Facility                     Fax: +1.212.995.4120
    New York University
    251 Mercer Street                             George.Sadowsky@nyu.edu
    New York, New York  10012-1185 http://www.nyu.edu/acf/staff/sadowsky/


--j

You can retrieve my PGP public key by sending mail with subject "send pgp key".
Take a look at www.Program.com for a good programmer web site.





