From: John Gilmore <gnu@toad.com>
Date: Sat, 13 Apr 1996 20:37:48 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: SF BAY event: Goodlatte, Burns, Pressler, Diffie, Hellman, Merkle, ...
Message-ID: <199604130647.XAA29808@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


The event costs $35 (or $20 if you're a Churchill Club member).  Probably
plus the price of dinner -- this wasn't clear from their recording.
I wish I would be in town for it.  Someone do a trip report, please!  -- gnu

Date: Thu, 11 Apr 1996 19:43:08 -0700
From: Kate Apgar <kapgar@ix.netcom.com>
To: webmaster@eff.org
Subject: Goodlatte to appear in Burlingame

My name is Kate Apgar and I am the executive director of the a 
non-profit, nonpartisan organization called the Churchill Club.  We 
present about 20 programs a year with topics ranging from arts, 
entertainment, education, foreign affairs, economics, medicine and high 
technology. We are hosting a program on cryptography.  One of the 
keynote speakers is Congressman Goodlatte (see description of program 
below). If this information is appropriate, please post and let us know. 
Thank you for your time.

Information Security and the 20th Anniversary 
of Public Key Cryptography

Monday, April 29, 1996
Marriott Hotel, Burlingame, CA
5:30 PM Full Dinner
6:30 PM Program

KEYNOTE SPEAKERS:

Senator Conrad Burns (R, MT)
Senator Larry Pressler (R, SD)
Congressman Robert Goodlatte (R, VA)
David Morris, Vice President, Cylink Corp.
Jim Omura, Chief Technology Officer, Cylink Corp.
James Freeman, Special Agent in Charge, FBI
Phil Mellinger, Chief Engineer, Government Securities Assoc.
Paul Raines, Project Manager, United State Postal Service
Whitfield Diffie, Martin Hellman and Ralph Merkle - Pioneers and 
original patent holders for public key cryptography

Economic espionage is costing the nation billions of dollars in lost 
business every year.  U.S. companies are in danger of losing everything 
from trade secrets and proprietary financial information , to the bottom 
line figures on contract bills.  Three bills are now in Congress to 
protect government, business and home computer users from outside 
snooping of sensitive information.  These proposed new laws have been 
written to encourage the use of encryption and loosen export 
restrictions on encryption technology.  Congressman Goodlatte is the 
author of one of these bills.  April 1996 is also the 20th anniversary 
of the creation of Public Key Cryptography.  The three principal 
pioneers and patent holders will also be present to share their views on 
the need for strong encryption.  Morris of Cylink Corp. will provide an 
overview of what state-of-the-art security solutions are needed, and 
available, to truly protect business from unauthorized access.  James 
Freeman of the FBI will discuss the recent study on industrial espionage 
and Paul Raines from the U.S. Postal Service will talk about electronic 
postmarking and certificate authority key registry bureau.

TO REGISTER:

Please call (408) 371-4460
or fax reservations (408) 371-4180
or email chrchllclb@aol.com

PRESENTED BY THE CHURCHILL CLUB




