From: "Vladimir Z. Nuri" <vznuri@netcom.com>
Date: Mon, 22 Jul 1996 06:14:33 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: NCs (network computers)
Message-ID: <199607211953.MAA22885@netcom7.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


I thought this was a great message on the future "network computers"
that may be coming out soon. a balanced view that shows how there
may be a niche, and that there are also places where they will
not be appropriate. the NCs could really potentially change the
computer and cyberspace as we know it in a very significant way.

------- Forwarded Message


From: JimBurd@aol.com
Date: Fri, 19 Jul 1996 07:59:03 -0400
Subject: Re: NC

When the idea of the NC was first floated, I thought to myself what an
absolutely terrible idea it was.  But as time goes on, and I read more about
the concept, I'm beginning to see that it has certain advantages.  These
advantages are going to be useful in two areas: corporate sites, and
non-technical households.  (Note: This does *not* necessarily mean that the
NC is going to be a success ;)

In a corporate environment, where many people in many different departments
have PCs on their desk, the IS dept has their hands full trying to keep these
machines running.  (I know, I've seen it first hand.)  People do *not* leave
their machines in the configurations that IS delivered to their desk.  People
bring in software from outside the company (games, personal software, etc.),
this leaves a gaping security hole (for viruses, etc.).  As people change
their machines around, it is difficult to 'borrow' someone else's machine
because it can be configured radically different from what you're used to
seeing on your desk.

The NC would reduce the per set cost of each desktop (nothing to sniff at).
 The software that runs the NC would be completely under the control of IS.
 So every machine looks the same and runs the same.  There would be a single
central point for virus checking, etc.  It would also eliminate a *lot* (or
all?) of the piracy issues that lurk in the background; you can make sure you
have a license for every piece of software that is being used.  It makes
backing up everyone's data a *lot* simpler; it's all in one place.

Now, the NC is *not* going to fly if IS tries to put it on *every* desktop.
 The computer geeks (software & hardware) are going to scream bloody murder
if IS tries.  But then, these users generally know enough (or more than IS)
to maintain their own machines.  The NC is going to be most useful for
secretaries (oops, I mean exectuive assistants), accounting, production
personel, etc.

It is this *potential* that is going to help sell the NC early on.  Whether
or not the software companies come through with products to help the NC work
is going to be crucial.  How *well* the whole thing works is also going to be
crucial.  Also, let's not forget about the need for a backup server.  If the
server (or the network) go down, the whole company can grind to a halt.
 Planning for this eventuality is going to be very important.

In the home market, the NC is going to be targeted at people like my mother
or my grandparents.  Last time I saw my grandparents (about a year ago), my
grandmother asked me about all those 'funny letters' at the bottom of the
screen on so many TV shows.  She was talking about the web URLs being
displayed.  I told her what it was about, and she asked if there was really
anything there worth seeing.  (I had to tell her the truth -- not really.)  

Anyway, the point is this: There people are *not* going to buy a PC.  They
know that they are expensive and can be very difficult & expensive to keep
running.  An NC offers the possibility (let's see if it can come true) of a
relatively low cost and simple use.  The software can be provided/maintained
by the local service provider.  Whether this is AOL, MSN, or an ISP is
probably still up in the air, and there is no reason that they can't all
co-exist.

Also, imagine the current headaches of the ISP trying to help a customer get
connected when something is wrong.  Is it hardware?  Software?  IRQ conflict?
 There is so *much* that can go wrong.  Imagine if the person calling has
*no* technical background.  Arrgh!  Now, imagine that the person calling has
an NC.  They run *standard* software and connect to the ISP.  It has the
potential to be *much*much* simpler.  (Again, we must wait and see if the
potential pans out.)

Now whether or not you 'rent' software, I don't know.  I can see a sizeable
market for this in games perhaps (like Nintendo, today).  You know, try it
before you buy it.  I do *not* think anyone in the home is going to run
Quicken on an NC; but in the corporate environment, this type of centralized
record keeping makes a lot of sense.  No more trying to back up the hard disk
on everyone's desk.


Anyway, that's my 2 cents worth.  I look forward to looking back in 5 years
to see how the whole thing panned out (or bombed!).

Jim :)




