From: Carl Johnson <toto@sk.sympatico.ca>
Date: Sat, 21 Dec 1996 05:32:42 -0800 (PST)
To: "Dr.Dimitri Vulis KOTM" <dlv@bwalk.dm.com>
Subject: Slaughter
In-Reply-To: <aVL0yD28w165w@bwalk.dm.com>
Message-ID: <32BBF98E.4D51@sk.sympatico.ca>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Dr.Dimitri Vulis KOTM wrote:
> 
>               CORPSES LITTER HILLS IN KARABAKH

Dear Dr.DVK,
   Thank you for your lengthy list of articles on the human slaughter
that continues on earth to this very day.  It reminds me of watching
the TV coverage of Desert Storm, as the news channels took great
delight in replaying scenes of American flyers massacring retreating
Iraquian troops who were beaten and bedraggled, merely trying to 
survive, and get home to their families.
   Basically, they were slaughtered so that the flyboys and their 
superiors at the Pentagon could test their new toys, and make sure
that they worked.
   It was considered acceptable action, however, because these were
the 'bad' guys.  We 'know' that they were, because we were told so by
the ten-second sound-bytes of the New World Order during the nightly
news.  So I listened as millions of Americans cheered the slaughter
of defeated troops, who had thrown up the white flag and retreated,
only to have us blow them away from out of the sky on their way back
home with our wonderful hi-tech weapons.
   I listened as thousands of Americans, including the media, truly 
bought into the Pentagon sound-byte that tells us the world is a
better place because we can slaughter the soldiers of less-developed
countries 'from a distance', using technology, and not 'risk' precious
American lives.  Of course, missles don't take prisoners, so everyone
we make war with has to die, now, don't they.

   Remember that this is the same Pentagon that built the InterNet.
And the same Americans who cheered the slaughter of defeated troops
will be lined up to cheer the slaughter of the misfits among us who
are culled from the herd through the tracking of their activities 
and their communications on the InterGlobal communications system 
of the New World Order.
   While the vast majority may be enthralled with their pretty, shiny,
new toy--the InterNet--and buy into the sound-bytes that portray it
as an empowerer of the common man, there are others who have, since its
inception, been warning of the 'dark side' of the InterNet.
   When the New World Order becomes a reality, the main difference 
between the next holocaust and the last one will be that the misfits
and outcasts will have GameBoys to play with during their trip to
Auschwitz.

   There is a quote I remember which struck me deeply when I heard it,
but forgive me if it is not quite correct:
   "They came for the Jews, and I wasn't a Jew, so I didn't speak up.
They came for the National Socialists, and I wasn't a National Socialist,
so I didn't speak up.  Then they came for me.
   "And nobody spoke up."

   I don't know Phil Zimmerman.  I've never met him and I'd never heard
of him, or of cryptography until the fledgling New World Order began
their crusade to start culling out the misfits who stuck out glaringly
from the common masses by trying to provide them protection from
Big Brother and his goons.
   I didn't know Phil Zimmerman, but I knew his psyche and I knew his
motivations.  You might say that we went to different high-schools
together.  So I spoke up.  Loudly (and anonymously).
   And by the time the sun came up the next morning, bleary-eyed and
tired, I had a copy of PGP on my hard drive.  I had a weapon of
self-defence in my possesion that Phil Zimmerman shed his blood for,
at the hands of the New Pharisees.
  You are free to rail night and day against cryptology and cypherpunks,
and whoever else it pleases you to rail against, because this is America.
But believe me, America is, and will be, a part of the New World Order.
Phil Zimmerman's case was not an 'aberration' of 'what is', it was a
foreshadowing of 'what is to come'.
  But there are others, with more foresight, who rail against the real
threats to mankind, and to freedom, and they do quietly, and in secret,
not wanting to share the fate of Phil Zimmerman and others, who had
too high a profile for the New World Order to ignore.
   These people are not psychic, but they have the foresight to see the
future in the shadows of the past, and they will tell you, man, woman,
and child,
   "You will take my cryptography from me when you pry it from my 
cold, dead algorithms."

   So, Dr. DV K, rant and rave as much as pleases you, but be careful
what you rave against, lest they come for you.
   And if you feel the net tightening around you, with the forces of
the New World Order hovering over you, deeming that now 'you' are 
becoming a problem, then think about protecting yourself.  Think about
cryptography.

Kindly,
  Toto

p.s -- If you are going to quote 'news broadcasts' from the BBC, etc,
then please don't quote the same 'bad syntax' in three consecutive
news releases.  i.e - "shot dead from their heads"
   It might give some people reason to wonder if you are authoring
these 'news broadcasts' yourself.
-- 
Reply to:toto@sk.sympatico.ca
"There's only one two."






