From: Andrew Loewenstern <andrew_loewenstern@il.us.swissbank.com>
Date: Thu, 7 Nov 1996 16:56:51 -0800 (PST)
To: "Timothy C. May" <tcmay@got.net>
Subject: Re: Why is cryptoanarchy irreversible?
In-Reply-To: <v03007801aea81885c729@[207.167.93.63]>
Message-ID: <9611080056.AA00887@ch1d157nwk>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


TCM writes:
> Wide distribution of tools and channels.

A very important point that I haven't seen raised in this thread is _why_  
strong crypto is going to be widespread and thus impossible to control.   
Strong crypto is going to be the foundation of the information age.  Sorry for  
the buzzwords, but it is very obvious to almost everyone that there is  
potentially a lot of money to be made with the 'Net and strong crypto is  
required to guarantee that people get what is coming to them and not get  
ripped off.  Strong crypto maximizes returns by outright preventing fraud  
(which is far better than after-the-fact legal remedies!) and allowing more  
efficient collection of money (with self-enforcing protocols and eliminating  
middle men).  Weak Crypto (i.e. GAK) does not offer these features because the  
weak point in the chain becomes a mostly disinterested low-wage employee at  
the KRC, which is likely to be operated by a foreign government!  Any  
businessman can immediately understand why this is unacceptable, especially  
with all of the economic espionage stories going around corporate america.

People will outright demand strong crypto.

This is already happening.  Despite intense pressure from TLA's for GAK,  
savvy businesses are demanding strong crypto (the idea that no crypto at all  
will be used is utterly ridiculous, it will either be strong or GAKed but  
there will be crypto).  Hardly anyone is bowing to the pressure.  It will take  
a mandate from congress to get people to actually use GAK, and the more  
businesses and congresscritters begin understand the benefits of strong crypto  
to the bottom line, the less likely such a mandate would happen.


andrew




