From: blanc <blancw@cnw.com>
Date: Wed, 16 Oct 1996 00:02:26 -0700 (PDT)
To: "'Vladimir Z. Nuri'" <cypherpunks@toad.com>
Subject: RE: mail software for multiple addrs
Message-ID: <01BBBAF6.AD64B4C0@king1-19.cnw.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


I use Win95 and Exchange for email, which works as follows:

In Exchange you can set up separate user "profiles", for which you enter all the info for any number of different ISP accounts, including the phone number for access, login name, and also password, if you wish.  Then when you open up Exchange you can select which account you want to connect to.  You can have a default connection, but after you've downloaded the email from one service, you can then select a different service to connect to and get your mail from there, and so on.

Each selection of a service provider will automatically:

1.  dial the service
2.  log you in
3.  enter your password, or allow you to enter it manually each time
4.  download your mail
5.  disconnect

There are bars at the top of the Exchange email list of messages by which you can sort your mail according to Sender, Subject, To, From, Date Sent, Date Received, Attachments, Level of Importance, etc., according as you click on each so-entitled bar.

Then you can highlight the messages and put them into folders and sub-folders.   Each provider brings up its own window of user-created folders.

At this time Exchange does not provide automatic filtering or "rules" to send certain messages to particular folders unless you're connected to an Exchange server, but there is a nifty new mail package front-end coming out very soon which will do this.  Then it will be possible to indicate that you want all your Cypherpunk mail going to the 'cpunk' folder, or messages from certain individuals going into a folder by their name (or you can send their email to the 'Delete' folder and set this folder to automatically delete all those messages when you exit the mail program). 

With Win95 you can also connect to a service provider through a semi-GUI interface for shell-access only (called Hyperterminal, similar to a telnet window) and use whatever software the provider offers (like Pine), and this will appear in all text, except that you can set automatic connections.  You can create multiple icons with their own separate automatic connections for this type access as well.

Internet Explorer 3.0 also offers mail features similar to Netscape, but they're also still comparatively simple (limited) .

   ..
Blanc








