From: Scott Weisman <sweisman@cc.huji.ac.il>
Date: Sun, 17 Nov 1996 09:41:28 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Strong Encryption for International Versions of Netscape
Message-ID: <3.0.32.19961117193927.006bc720@cc.huji.ac.il>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: November 17, 1996

ANNOUNCING STRONG ENCRYPTION FOR INTERNATIONAL VERSIONS OF NETSCAPE

JERUSALEM, Israel -- SecureScape Technologies announces the alpha release
of its first product, SecureScape.  This revolutionary program offers
international users of Netscape Navigator the same strong encryption as
that enjoyed by users in North America.

All software encryption products developed in the United States are subject
to export restrictions.  Such exported software is subject to an arbitrary
40-bit key length, compared to the 128-bit (or greater) key length commonly
found in domestic software.  This weakened software is in certain ways
inferior to no encryption at all, since it gives users a false sense of
security.

The Executive Order by President Clinton on November 15, which modifies
U.S. Government policy on export restrictions, still requires requests for
export permits to be considered on a case by case basis.

Furthermore, it is very likely that strong encryption products will be
granted export permits conditional on key-escrow or other compromise
arrangements, because the Executive Order states, "the export of encryption
software . . .  must be controlled . . . such software shall not be
considered or treated as 'technology'."  Implying that encryption software
is still considered a form of munitions.

The irony, of course, is that strong encryption has been widely and easily
available outside of the U.S. for years.  SecureScape was developed using
the freely available SSLeay library, developed by Eric Young of Australia.

SecureScape Technologies was founded by Scott Weisman, a software developer
residing in Jerusalem, to develop and market Internet security products.
The company is seeking investors interested in a strategic partnership.

The SecureScape home page is located at
<http://www.SecureScape.com/secscape/>.  SecureScape currently works with
Netscape versions 1.1 or later on the Windows 95 and Windows NT platforms.

CONTACT:
Scott Weisman
P.O.B. 31194
Jerusalem 91311 ISRAEL
sweisman@SecureScape.com

(c) 1996 Scott Weisman - All Rights Reserved.
Netscape and Netscape Navigator are trademarks of Netscape Communications
Corporation.
Microsoft, Windows, and Windows NT are trademarks of Microsoft Corporation.
SecureScape uses software developed by Eric Young (eay@mincom.oz.au).





