From: design@pathfinder.com
Date: Tue, 18 Jun 1996 11:24:13 +0800
To: Multiple recipients of list DESIGN-L             <DESIGN-L@pathfinder.com>
Subject: Pathfinder's New Look
Message-ID: <199606171752.NAA00909@tigger.dev.pathfinder.com.pathfinder.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text


Dear Pathfinder Member:

We're excited to announce a major redesign of Pathfinder, your home on the
Net, and invite you to come and check it out at http://pathfinder.com!

The NEW look of Pathfinder is our response to your feedback. We've made it
FASTER LOADING, EASIER TO NAVIGATE and added even more DAILY and
INTERACTIVE content.  And, we've taken advantage of the latest technologies
like Java to make your Pathfinder experience more informative and fun.

Whether it's up-to-the-minute news and weather, the latest sports scores,
stock quotes or today's celebrity gossip - you can now find it all at the
click of a mouse.  If you don't see what you're looking for just click on
the SEARCH button and we'll help you find it -   if it's on Pathfinder or
somewhere else on the Net.

When we launched in October 1994, Pathfinder was considered a
ground-breaking effort on the Web.  Today, Pathfinder is a true super-site,
containing more than 150,000 web pages from over 90 of the biggest names in
news, information and entertainment - names you trust like Time, Money,
Sports Illustrated, Entertainment Weekly, People and Fortune.

Much more important than our size, however, is our loyal base of Pathfinder
users.  With your help and support Pathfinder has grown from just a large
web site into a vibrant virtual community of members and ideas.

We'd be very interested in your feedback on our new look - just click on
the "Welcome" banner at the top of the homepage and you can send us all
your thoughts and ideas.  And, if you find you have any questions while
visiting Pathfinder, be sure to check out our new online HELP area.

Sincerely,


Marie Blue
Director of Consumer Marketing

P.S.  Stay tuned for details on our exciting new product, PATHFINDER
PERSONAL EDITION.  It's a fully personalizable and customizable online news
and information service  plus - get the information you want, when you want
it!  See our homepage for more information.




