From: bart@netcom.com (Harry Bartholomew)
Date: Tue, 16 Jan 1996 20:10:48 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Job offer for Computer Security Researcher
Message-ID: <199601161158.DAA20583@netcom14.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


    Seen on ba.jobs.offered:

	Computer Security Research Position

The Distributed Information Technologies Center at Sandia National
Laboratories, in Livermore, California, is seeking a qualified
candidate for the position of Senior Member of the Technical Staff
in the area of computer security research.  The scope of security
research and development at Sandia is very broad, encompassing
elements that relate to networking, hosts, and protocols.  Examples
include high-speed encryption, advanced firewalls, detection systems,
and secure agents.  The focus of the research is to provide both
solutions to security issues relevant to the Laboratory as well as
contributions to the security technology base needed by the
National Information Infrastructure.  The security research staff
collaborate closely with the research groups that are involved with
distributed computing and advanced networking, with the goal of
providing a totally integrated solution to the information
infrastructure.  In addition to having the technical depth
necessary to conduct extensive research projects, this Senior
Staff Member will be expected to lead proposal efforts, serve as
team leader for projects, and maintain active membership in national
organizations that influence the direction of security research.

The successful candidate will have an advanced degree in computer
security or a related field.  In addition, candidates will be
evaluated on their demonstrated ability to formulate proposals,
perform in-depth research, and report results in the form of papers
and presentations.

A U.S. citizenship is required for this position.  Interested
candidates should send their resumes to:
    
    	Peter Dean, Manager Networking Research Department 8910
    	Sandia National Laboratories
	PO Box 969, MS9011
    	Livermore, CA 94551-0969

    	(510) 294-2656
    	pwdean@sandia.gov





