From: Mark (Mookie) <mark@zang.com>
Date: Tue, 16 Jan 1996 14:04:31 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: The Last Mitnick Post/Thread
Message-ID: <199601160544.TAA08002@zang.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text


>Markoff, and Tsutomo acted reprehensibly by quoting sniffer sessions with Kevin
>and jsz in which my site was mentioned.  Not only were the facts wrong

At the time everyone knew Kevin was getting very warm, the simple social
contacts people had with him were becoming insidious due to the increased
attention being put on him. He was becoming rather infatuated with some people
too which some of his antics show. It was in this climate that a process of
alientation began where lies were fed him and procrastination was offered as
a reason for avoiding his spheres and requests. Noone wants to hold the hot
potato.

I'm actually observing similar activities today as someone who has a court
date approaching is becoming alienated by his own actions and the attitudes
of others. Preparing to go to jail was my first thought. Some people never
learn.

>who/what netsys.com/Len Rose is, they only bothered to mention the past and not

What do you expect? They are out for emotive impact, bugger the facts. You
being an internet service provider doesnt sell, but a couple of events in the
past can be made to give everything a dark and dangerous flavour. Pique
interest and generate another percent of sales.

>perhaps someone could clear jsz's name which seems to be pretty muddied by the
>somewhat irresponsible literary excesses which seem to fill the Tsutomo/Markoff

Him and all the others I've heard bandied about. It's a case of tall poppy
syndrome where anyone who has a brain is pushed into a higher status than
they want or deserve. I've seen a number of people recently who have been
spoken of in vaulted tones or thought of as bleeding edge merely because
they have had exposure to a lot of systems and their skill set is more
than passable. I think jsz's name was mentioned because it was the only
intelligent converstion Shimomura actually got. Mitnik was always warezing
and trading around and doing the 3133+ $p34K crap so prevalent today. I
found him boorish and didn't pay much attention to him. It was only when
this Shimomura crap started anyone cared who he spoke to.

I regard the whole sordid deal as a hollywood driven sales and marketing
machine, most likely coached to the two players by their media backers.
When they stop trying to make things into something they aren't is when
I'll bother to pay any attention to their ravings.

nuff said.
Mark




