From: cpunk@remail.ecafe.org (ECafe Anonymous Remailer)
Date: Wed, 3 Apr 1996 17:40:07 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Treasure of Sierra Madres?
Message-ID: <199604030045.BAA17195@pangaea.hypereality.co.uk>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


"The scent of riches wafting from cyberspace is overpowering."

Free CSI Report Explores Threats to Secure Electronic Commerce

San Francisco, April 2 -- The drive toward Internet commerce
is unstoppable.  But how serious are the security threats
associated with it?  And how effective are the proposed
solutions? Computer Security Iinstitute's "Special Report on
Electronic Commerce Security: Treasure of Sierra Madres?"
offers a comprehensive look at the risks, threats and
vulnerabilities of Internet-based transactions.

Will the profits justify the risk?  What lessons can be drawn
from recent revelations such as the vetting of Netscape, the
robbing of Citibank, the ransacking of the Netcom and the
Kocher "timing attack?" This latest "CSI Special Report"
contains insightful answers from a broad range of experts
including Dr. Gene Spafford of Computers, Operations, Audit,
Security and Technology (COAST), Donn B. Parker of SRI
International, Dan Farmer, co-author of SATAN, and Mack Hicks,
Vice President of Bank of America.

"The scent of riches wafting from cyberspace is overpowering,"
comments Richard Power, CSI editor and author of the report. 
"The risk of failing to go on-line is perceived as greater
than the risk of failing to go on-line securely.  But recent
revelations about vulnerabilities in Java and Netscape
highlight how much still needs to be done."

The 19-page study includes practical tools such as electronic
commerce security checklists and sample electronic commerce
policies. To obtain a free copy of CSI's "Special Report on
Electronic Commerce Security" email your mailing address to
prapalus@mfi.com, phone 415-905-2310, or fax 415-905-2218.

Computer Security Institute (CSI) is the industry's leading
international membership organization specifically serving the
information security professional. Established in 1974, CSI
has members worldwide and provides a wide variety of
information and educational programs to assist practitioners
in protecting the information assets of corporations and
governmental organizations.

--








