From: printing@explicit.com (William Knowles)
Date: Sun, 11 Feb 1996 06:37:41 +0800
To: Cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: The Agincourt Project
Message-ID: <m0tlNHP-001VxbC@sashimi.wwa.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Here is a thank you rant from the OCAF that I got in
my mail today.  

William Knowles
printing@explicit.com


--(Fwd)--

>From Oklahomans for Children And Families (OCAF)
ocaf@aol.com
ocaf@telepath.com
-----------------


Thank you for requesting our document "The Agincourt Project".
We hope you have had time to read and digest it.  And we very
much hope you will join us in our fight to end illegal pornography
and child pornography on the Internet.

-  If you are a concerned citizen, we hope you will follow the
   suggestions in our Action Plan.  We need your help to get
   our document in the hands of law enforcement officials
   across America.  This is a complicated issue, but we have
   found that once the police and prosecuting attorneys
   understand how an ISP operates, the criminal liability of
   the ISP becomes obvious.

-  If you are a law enforcement official or a prosecuting
   attorney responding to our notices of potential illegal
   activity in your jurisdiction, we are ready to answer
   any questions you or your staff may have.

-  If you are a representative of a media organization, we 
   stand ready to answer any questions you may have and to
   make ourselves available for interviews.

-  And, finally, if your are an Internet Service Provider
   who is concerned about our activities, your concern is 
   justified.  We hope that you have already made the 
   decision to remove illegal pornography and child
   pornography from your news server.  And we sincerely
   thank you if you have done so.  If you have not, 
   please understand that we are receiving help from
   concerned citizens across the United States.  Sooner
   or later, the police in your area will be contacted.

   Also understand that we do not intend to find one large
   ISP for a test case.  We are encouraging law enforcement
   in every city to use existing laws to put an end to 
   the illegal pornography and child pornography in 
   newsgroups. 
   
Again, thank you for your interest in our work.


--(End fwd)--





