From: nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)
Date: Wed, 10 Jan 1996 09:14:08 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Sci-Atlanta Uses Cylink
Message-ID: <199601100051.BAA00377@utopia.hacktic.nl>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Scientific-Atlanta Licenses Cylink's Security Techniques
for Digital Broadband Application

First Use of Patented Cylink Public Key Methods by a
Digital Set-Top Terminal Supplier for Two-Way Message
Encryption, Decryption and Authentication


Atlanta, Jan. 9 -- Scientific-Atlanta, Inc. announced
today the licensing from Cylink Corporation of
communications security techniques for use by cable and
other broadband television systems.

Cylink, a provider of enterprise-wide network information
security products and wireless communications, has
licensed to Scientific-Atlanta what are known as the
"Stanford patents," which cover the field of public key
cryptography, a security technique that ensures privacy,
authentication and integrity of electronic information.

The license gives Scientific-Atlanta the right to
practice public key cryptography methods, as defined in
certain intellectual property holdings of Cylink.  These
include methods for generation, authentication and
exchange of "public keys" used in securely communicating
point-to-point network messages.  Scientific-Atlanta
plans to use these cryptography techniques in its
development of a conditional access system for digital
networks -- including set-top terminals, headend
components, and network element management software -- to
improve communications security for digital pay-per-view,
cable modems and other broadcast and interactive
applications.

The license is the first that Cylink has granted to a
set-top terminal manufacturer of its patented
cryptographic techniques.  No other terms were disclosed.

With sophisticated encryption systems, cable and other
broadband network operators can be more flexible in
implementing new services that employ easy-to-use
security.  For example, both content providers and the
network operator can have a secure way of interactive
communications with subscribers.  Sensitive information,
such as credit card numbers, can be encrypted and
exchanged. The identity of the sender and the message
content can be authenticated -- an important capability
for multi-provider authorization environments and for
validation of orders from subscribers.

A public key-based cryptography system controls the
encryption and decryption of messages.  Each user is
assigned two unique mathematically-related keys: a
published public key, and a secret private key.  In a
cable TV environment, the public key for each
subscriber's set-top terminal can be distributed or
"published" while keeping the private key in secure
memory.

"We're excited about the opportunities this license opens
for content providers and network operators," said Bob
Van Orden, Scientific-Atlanta's product line director of
digital subscriber systems.  "With Cylink's innovations,
we have the foundation necessary for designing very
advanced security into any digital broadband application,
including pay-per-view, cable modems and electronic
shopping."

"Through the use of public key technologies, Scientific-
Atlanta will help network operators to protect the value
of their services," said David Morris, vice president of
marketing for Cylink.  "This is a vitally important step
for operators as they migrate to digital networks."

Scientific-Atlanta, Inc. (http://www.sciatl.com) is a
leading supplier of broadband communications systems,
satellite-based video, voice and data communications
networks and worldwide customer service and support.  The
company is the Official Broadband Video Distribution
Sponsor of the 1996 Olympic Games in Atlanta, Georgia.







