From: blanc <blancw@accessone.com>
Date: Wed, 10 Jul 1996 16:55:51 +0800
To: "'cypherpunks@toad.com>
Subject: FW: [RANT] Giving Mind Control Drugs to Children
Message-ID: <01BB6DE5.F2B1D660@blancw.accessone.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Well, again my earlier message went out without my comments.  I think I've discovered a feature in MS Exchange:  true stego!   

Oh, well.  The gist of my comment was:

	As Tim said, the selective application of drugs or persecution regarding their use points to a great hypocrisy (and deterioration of character), and the more widespread the acceptance of hypocritical double-standards, the higher the rate-o-meter goes up in favor of statism.  At the very least, all the confusion surrounding drug use will create "disrespect for Authority" (which in turn will inspire statists to propose further crack-downs, pardon the pun, on "criminals").

	It makes me think of those Communist countries (remember them?) where political dissenters were been labelled insane - the protesters were the ones identified as having the problems, not the State.  The imprisoned troublemakers were then drugged, thus taking care of their "irrational" behavior and lack of appreciation.
......................................................................

Otherwise, replying to Perry, who remonstrated:

	Look, quit trying to tell people who have ADD that they 
	are in the wrong jobs, that they are unmotivated, that they 
	are "lazy", or whatever. Calling them "nuts" is actually far 
	better. It at least acknowledges that there is something wrong 
	that isn't readily fixed by the nostrums of people who have no 
	idea whatsoever what they are going through.

It's pretty easy to get caught up in a controversial thread like this one and begin to make all sorts of recommendations.  I realize it's not for me, a stranger removed from the life of one who suffers from something like ADD, to categorize and condemn them.
I was just presenting the example that sometimes problems are not what some people think they are, and therefore the solutions are not necessarily the best, either.    

But, this subject as Tim brought it up was concerning the relationship of drugs to society, hypocricy, and little helpless neighbor children (very controversial).  In regards to an individual's personal self-made choice to use drugs or other chemical substances on themselves,  what else could a cold, cruel, anarcho-capitalist libertarian type do but defer to their decision?

     ..
Blanc




