From: C Matthew Curtin <cmcurtin@research.megasoft.com>
Date: Wed, 21 Aug 1996 04:05:18 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Securing Internet mail at the MTA level
Message-ID: <199608201529.LAA01469@goffette.research.megasoft.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Hi,

Recently, I've been looking into securing email at the MTA level, and
would like to get your thoughts on implementation possibilities and
related issues.

The problems that I'm trying to solve are:
    1. Host authentication
    2. Data privacy

In order for the widespread encryption to work, several things need to
occur:
    1. Phase-in of the new stuff
    2. Backward compatibility (ability to continue to work in the
       clear) for a period of years
    3. A single worldwide mechanism, defined by an RFC, and freely
       available, except, perhaps, in the case of commercial
       MTAs. (i.e., the use of RSA seems appropriate for host and
       session key management, and is free via RSAREF in the US, free
       outside of the US, but not free for commercial use. This seems
       acceptable to me.)

Two types of approaches are possible:
    1. Adding to the SMTP protocol itself, allowing for MTAs to
       identify crypto-capable peers, and then performing
       authentication and session encryption where possible.
    2. Waiting for a cryptographic transport layer network protocol
       (such as what is being proposed in draft-ietf-tls-ssh-00),
       allowing SMTP to remain untouched, and only requiring MTAs to
       add support for the new network protocol.

I like the second approach better, because it allows more problems to
be solved with one move, and it would be easier to add crypto
functionality to our common network utilities by simply making them
aware of the new transport layer protocol. The first approach would
require redefinitions of RFCs for each of the services, and lots of
redundant work.

I mentioned my interest in an SSH-capable MTA to Tatu Ylonen
<ylo@ssh.fi>, and he as also expressed interest. The word from him on
the status of the SSH Internet Draft is that a reference
implementation should be available early next month. I'm considering
using that reference implementation to add SSH capability to an MTA,
perhaps sendmail.

My questions are:
    1. Which of the two approaches seems to make the most sense to
       you?
    2. Is there another approach that could work better?
    3. Is there interest in adding SSH functionality to sendmail in
       the near future (either by the draft spec, or once the RFC has
       been published)?

Please feel free to pass this around, if you deem appropriate. I'm
interested in lots of feedback before deciding if and how to go ahead
with the project.

Thanks.

-- 
C Matthew Curtin        MEGASOFT, LLC        Director, Security Architecture
I speak only for myself.  Don't whine to anyone but me about anything I say.
Hacker Security Firewall Crypto PGP Privacy Unix Perl Java Internet Intranet
cmcurtin@research.megasoft.com http://research.megasoft.com/people/cmcurtin/




