From: Alex Strasheim <alex@proust.suba.com>
Date: Wed, 6 Mar 1996 08:03:03 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: new netscape servers
Message-ID: <199603052036.OAA04200@proust.suba.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text


>From the Netscape home page:

"Netscape also announced FastTrack Server 2.0, an entry-level Web server
that combines all the new capabilities of the next-generation Netscape
Servers into one easy-to-use package.  FastTrack comes with SSL security,
Java and JavaScript support, and Netscape Navigator Gold content-creation
software - for only $295."

There are two reactions we can have to this.  On the one hand, it's a 
good thing because it's going to make SSL servers a lot more popular.

But at the same time, it raises some serious questoins about how Netscape 
plans on dealing with competitors.  It's not clear whether or not the 
$295 price tag includes a certificate or not.  But is it coincidental 
that people who want to use alternative technology like apacheSSL will 
have to pay the same price for the cert along as Netscape's customers 
will have to pay for a plug and play package?

(The rest of this post is based on the assumption that you do get a cert 
with the "fast-track" server.  That's not clear, so if I'm wrong, I 
apologize to the folks at Netscape.)

There are two things keeping an organization like c2.org from competitng 
with Netcape on price:  verisign and the licensing fees on rsaref.  Both 
companies have close ties to Netscape.

It's imperative that we challenge Netscape's control over the CAs. 
Obviously they can preinstall whatever CAs they want in their browsers. 

But that doesn't mean we're powerless.  I think we ought to:

(1) form a new non-profit low cost CA

(2) make a concerted effort to explain the issue to the public and
encourage people to ok the new CA.

(3) try to create a sense that using a preinstalled CA is a form a 
collaboration (this will be hard, but I think it's true).  If enough 
people will use a new CA, then it will be as good as one of the 
pre-installed ones.

We can't let this sort of power concentrate in Netscape's hands.  It's 
not a question of whether or not they're good people.  It's just a bad 
development for everyone.

--
Alex Strasheim, alex@proust.suba.com





