From: vinnie moscaritolo <vinnie@webstuff.apple.com>
Date: Sat, 6 Jul 1996 12:44:36 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Net and Terrorism
Message-ID: <v03007603ae03660965f2@[38.26.2.89]>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


>Absent the fearmongering, the Viperweenies would
>have turned to something else antisocial, buut they wouldn't have had a
>"movement" to cling to. (Or maybe they would have... in another era, they
>would have joined up with the Weathermen or the Symbionese Liberation Army.)

last time I chacked there were at least two Leftist Militia's in the
SantaCruz area. (now ain't that a scary thought... Liberals with guns).

These people, both Right and Left don't get it. Blowing shit up and running
around in the woods with cheap ChiCom rifles palying army does nothing for
your cause.  It just distances you from the mainstream morons. This makes
it easier for the Feds to get away with kicking in your door, gassing your
kids and shooting your wives. all in time for the 6PM news.

I guess I dont understand this fascination with Militias and woods, Maybe
these guys forgot how much fun it was to toast marshmellows in the woods,
assuming you have the proper permit from the CA state parks.

>Fortunately, and despite what, say, the SWC says in its fundraising
>materials, the middle of the road among the militias isn't that kooky.

The SWC arent kooks, they are con men

>Bo Gritz and the leaders of the Michigan Militia were heard calling the
>Freemen
>a bunch of lying scum; I've observed more mainstream (if that's the word)
>militiafolk distancing themselves from the Viperweenies both online and on
>shortwave.

Col Gritz actually does have some interesting stuff to say, He is really a
very caring guy. But I do think he could use a (better) PR person. I like
about 99% of what he has to say,  I just filter out the stuff about UN and
weather control. (the UN can't even control it's bowels much less the
weather). But hey Bo is old enough to take care of himself.


>Anyway, I don't think Vinnie was suggesting that the news be censored --
>just that the press doesn't have an obligation to print the obituary the
>"martyrs" want.

Absolutely. Something like "some asshole terrorist just blew up a building.
No cause was sited, is enough" Don't quote thier organization, don;t quote
thier cause. just make look like the kook they are. Oh and offering
citizens some bounty money for thier hydes is a good idea. Or better yet,
when you catch the fuckers, give em a fair trial, and a public hanging.
Same goes for terrorists that shoot pregnant women if you know what I mean,
but thats my opinion.


As for a solution to governement problems, I have always and still belive
in the ballot box first. And the only way to win votes is to appeal to the
morons out there who do vote.. Maybe there is hope in the next generation
of internet literate kids.. or maybe I am just a dreamer.




Vinnie Moscaritolo
------------------
"friends come and friends go..but enemies accumulate."
http://www.vmeng.com/vinnie/
Fingerprint: 4FA3298150E404F2782501876EA2146A






