From: Alex Strasheim <cp@proust.suba.com>
Date: Fri, 15 Mar 1996 11:50:18 +0800
To: adam@lighthouse.homeport.org (Adam Shostack)
Subject: Re: Remailer passphrases
In-Reply-To: <199603140450.XAA12195@homeport.org>
Message-ID: <199603140613.AAA00470@proust.suba.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text


(warning:  I don't know much about security, so if you don't either, 
don't take what I have to say too seriously...)

> 	This is a long standing debate in the security community.
> Some folks like multiple box security.  Others point out that using
> two boxes means both need to be well secured, and you have twice as
> many places to make mistakes.

Ok, I see your point.  If someone compromises workstation, they can read
all the mixmaster packets by looking at what comes in and out of blackbox. 
But they still can't grab the passphrase and key, so old and future
traffic is safer, and if there's a large reordering pool they'll have
trouble matching a given incoming packet with a given outgoing packet. 

> 	Lets say the boxes are called workstation and blackbox.  If I
> break into workstation, I can provide bogus files for blackbox.  Since
> blackbox extends some trust to workstation, it might not be expecting
> to see a message with a return address of "`|telnet evil.fbi.gov`".

It seems to me that if you're just running a remailer that only talks to
one other machine, it ought to be possible to eliminate this kind of a
problem.  Blackbox grabs a file from a queue on workstation, runs it
through mixmaster, and deposits the output in an outgoing queue on
workstation.  If the trojan file is something strange, it will just drop
through mixmaster.  Maybe it would choke workstation on the way out, but
blackbox -- and the passphrase -- would be safe.

> 	I'd argue that setting up a simple mailer which uses
> workstation as a relay host gives you as much security, and lessens
> your dependance on workstation, which we expect will be comprimised.

If we leave sendmail on, we're hosed -- wouldn't bb moving packets on and
off workstation with ssh's rcp be a lot safer? 

> (Of course we expect ws to be comprimised.  Why else are we setting up
> bb as a seperate machine?)

Agreed.

> 	Turning of getty and removing the swap file strike me as a bit
> extreme.  A panic login system, otoh, that accepts a bad password and
> wipes the disk, might not be a bad idea.  (Of course, if this becomes
> popular, the bad guys will just rip out your disk and read it on
> another machine.)

I admit freely that this is all extreme and impractical...  I was just
trying to think through the problem.

I was shooting for a system that would be worthless to an attacker if it
was turned off, and which couldn't be hacked easily from the console
without turning it off.

A crypto file system directory will be worthless if the machine goes down,
and if there's no swapfile, there's not going to be anything nasty left
behind there.  The bad guys *can't* rip out your hard drive and read it,
because all the good stuff is on the cfs drive -- it's just a big blob of
idea'd data, and neither the remailer' or cfs's passphrase was ever
written to disk.  

When bb boots, it waits for the sysadmin to ssh in and mount the cfs drive
manually, then start the remailer manually.

If the attacker didn't know what you've got in place, he'd probably just
steal the machine assuming he could get something out of it when he's got
it back on his workbench.  If he did know the details of the system, he'd
be faced with trying to extract the cfs and remailer passwords from the
machine's ram without turning it off and without being able to login from
the console -- ideally you wouldn't even have a keyboard plugged in.  (I
have no idea how hard it would be to steal information from a running
machine's ram -- or if it's even possible).

> 	Be awful tough if it only listens to ssh & smtp.  Are you sure
> your kernel doesn't do anything bogus with ICMP?  Data overflows in
> ssh or smap?  DNS, syslogd, tty overloads?

Actually, it only listens to ssh;  a bug there is fatal.  Same goes for
the kernel.  We don't need dns -- to bb, the only other machine in the
universe is workstation, and it knows the IP address.

If the core system can't run without incident, you're in trouble.  But 
couldn't you do a pretty good job of shielding it from surprises by 
turning almost everything off and not letting it talk to the outside 
world, except in very narrow ways?






