From: Rich Graves <llurch@networking.stanford.edu>
Date: Mon, 18 Nov 1996 01:00:42 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: BayLISA: Randal Schwartz, Just Another Convicted Perl Hacker (fwd)
Message-ID: <Pine.GUL.3.95.961117210230.15571A-100000@Networking.Stanford.EDU>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


This should be QUITE entertaining.

-rich

---------- Forwarded message ----------
Date: 17 Nov 1996 19:03:17 -0500
From: Laura de Leon <deleon@cat.hpl.hp.com>
Newsgroups: ba.announce
Subject: BayLISA: Randal Schwartz, Just Another Convicted Perl Hacker

The BayLISA group meets monthly to discuss topics of interest to systems
and network administrators.  The meetings are free and open to the public.

BayLISA holds monthly meetings on the third Thursday of each month at
7:30 PM PST.  We meet at Cisco building J in San Jose, on Tasman Drive near
First street. (This is across the street from the room we met in at Cisco last
month). See www.baylisa.org for more information.  The meetings are also
broadcast via MBONE.

NOTE:  AS OF OCTOBER, WE HAVE MOVED TO CISCO.  This is a new location. Thanks
very much to Synopsys for hosting us.

Schedule
--------
November 21

Randal Schwartz: Just Another Convicted Perl Hacker

This talk will describe how the speaker became a felon in the
process of doing his job as a systems administrator in the
well-publicized Oregon v. Schwartz case (victim: Intel).  It will
include some points about Oregon's current law and the implications
of this case on the computer community.  There will be a special
focus on how to make sure this doesn't happen to you.

There will be copies of Randal's new PERL book available if you would like to
get one signed.


BayLISA Board Elections & member meeting before the regular meeting
At 7:00, Elections for the BayLISA board will be held.  We encourage all
members to vote.  If you aren't a member, this is a good time to join (see our
Web site)


December 19
Our Holiday meeting-- Join us to share goodies and computer horror stories, as
well as descriptions of stupid computer tricks.  There will be a prize for best
story.  This is a very informal meeting, and will not be broadcast on the
MBONE.

January 16
Brent Chapman, Containment Zones (firewalls to keep people in)

February 20
Standards efforts and how they will effect you

March 20
Paul Vixie

[Schedule subject to change]

For further information on BayLISA, check out our web site:
http://www.baylisa.org/

To get further information on the meeting location, you can also ftp it from

	ftp.baylisa.org:/location

For any other information, please send email to:

	info@baylisa.org

If you have any questions, please contact me or the info alias listed above.










