From: tcmay@got.net (Timothy C. May)
Date: Sun, 11 Feb 1996 12:16:59 +0800
To: Cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: A Rant about Senator James Exon
Message-ID: <ad4147eb37021004e8ee@[205.199.118.202]>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


At 1:57 AM 2/10/96, Mark Allyn (206) 860-9454 wrote:
>Allright. That does it.
>
>I am going to volunteer to try to make a perl script that
>I will make available that will automatically email every
>congressman that has an email address. I will include a pre
>pared text of the email message. All you would have to do is
>to sign it and it would send the same message to all of them
>with email addresses automatically. I can even have it have
>several prepaired texts so that they are all slightly different
>so that any funky gatekeepers at the congress email sites that
>attempt to keep out spams could be defeated.
>
>What do you think? Is this worth it?


Here's something I did about Senator James Exon:

My complaint about James Exon

I would like to take a moment to comment on James Exon's statements. What
follows is a set of observations I have made about inane zombies. I truly
suspect that his opinion is a lazy cop-out. If he gets his way, I might
very well kill somebody. This is explicitly or implicitly expressed or
presupposed in most of the material I plan to present. To Exon, terrorism
is a kind of religion. This is not the first time we've had trouble with
unreasonable goofy-types, and it certainly won't be the last. His claims
are a cesspool of alarmism.

If you need proof that he is off his rocker, then just take a look at him.
Exon has a driving need to reduce human beings and many other living
organisms to engineered products and mere cogs in the social machine.
Ostensibly, he does not intend to insult my intelligence, but in fact,
insipid porn stars like him tend to conveniently ignore the key issues of
this or any other situation. Speaking of insincere megalomaniacs, it would
be downright ungrateful for him to censor any incomplicitous principles.
It's a sad world where fickle worthless-types have the power to feed us a
diet of robbery, murder, violence, and all other manner of trials and
tribulations. After all, I myself unequivocally maintain that Exon should
take more responsibility for his actions. To put it another way, he likes
to have difficult social issues presented to him in simple, black-and-white
terms.

I don't see how he can be so abusive. That doesn't necessarily mean that he
is intentionally being stupid. Rather, it means that his attempts to turn
the trickle of alcoholism into a tidal wave are just a game to him.
Although Exon has tremendous popular appeal, Exon has come very, very close
to making me defend my rights. He should just quit whining about
everything. He feels he has not only a right, but also a duty, to toy with
our opinions. His idea of a good time is to torture jealous radical
hedonists. An inner voice tells me that Exon's claims are pure tripe. To
sum it all up, pesky deranged moviegoers like James Exon often think they
have the right to flush all my hopes and dreams down the toilet.


-Tim May

P.S. As many of you may already know, a "rant generator" can be found at
http://www-csag.cs.uiuc.edu/individual/pakin/complaint

Boycott espionage-enabled software!
We got computers, we're tapping phone lines, we know that that ain't allowed.
---------:---------:---------:---------:---------:---------:---------:----
Timothy C. May              | Crypto Anarchy: encryption, digital money,
tcmay@got.net  408-728-0152 | anonymous networks, digital pseudonyms, zero
W.A.S.T.E.: Corralitos, CA  | knowledge, reputations, information markets,
Higher Power: 2^756839 - 1  | black markets, collapse of governments.
"National borders aren't even speed bumps on the information superhighway."








