From: Derek Atkins <warlord@MIT.EDU>
Date: Thu, 15 Feb 1996 23:11:10 +0800
To: aba@atlas.ex.ac.uk
Subject: Re: Stealth PGP work
In-Reply-To: <10100.9602141537@dart.dcs.exeter.ac.uk>
Message-ID: <199602141830.NAA02458@toxicwaste.media.mit.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


> I presume he means stealth, and the functionality that it provides, as

I'm not familiar with the exact details of what stealth does, which is
why I asked for more details.  The problem is that PGP API, when
decrypting a message, keys off the PGP packet types in order to
operate.  If stealth can work outside of PGP 2.6.2, then it should be
possible to add it on to PGP 3, theoretically.

>   I raised this question myself to
> the pgp3 development team some time ago, and the reply I got was
> essentially that it would still be possible to have as an add-on, so
> there was no need to clutter the pgp3 functionality.

And in some ways this is true.  The PGP API does allow for add-ons.
I'll explain what I mean later in this message.  Then again, I don't
know to whom you spoke.  The "PGP 3 development team" has changed a
lot over the last couple years.  At this point, for all practical
purposes, there only two people on the team.

> However, if you provide an API call to unarmor with out decrypting,
> and a call to decrypt with out uncompressing, etc then a call to test
> for a particular user id on the assumption that it is addressed to
> that user id and is an encrypted message would fit in a similar way?

It is not implemented directly in this manner, but it is possible to
get this functionality.  The application will get a callback at which
point it can direct the PGP library.  For example, if you want to
dearmor but not decrypt, when you get to the encryption part you tell
it not to continue and to just output the encrypted block.

Basically, the PGP Message Processing API is based on a pipeline
model.  You have a bunch of pipeline modules that are connected, and
each module performs some transformation on the data.  For example,
you have a text module that goes into a literal module which goes into
a signature module which goes into an encryption module which then
goes into an armor module.  To add stealth, you just add a stealth
module in there.  However I can tell you now that we are not working
on such a module for the PGP 3.0 release.

I'll hopefully have the API Spec and Programmer's Guide in a state
where I can let others see it in the near future.  But since I'm going
to be off the net for about a week or two at the end of the month, it
might have to wait until March unless a miracle happens in the next
week.

I hope this helps.

-derek




