From: Jim Byrd <byrd@ACM.ORG>
Date: Fri, 24 May 1996 00:55:26 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: subpoenas coming against 2 anon remailers?
Message-ID: <2.2.16.19960523104722.1bf77b98@shore.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


This was posted by henri@netcom.com to alt.religion.scientology:
----------
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

I have just received urgent email from Grady Ward regarding
the case against him by the cult of $cientology.  Apparently,
the depraved and insane cult of degenerates and reprobates
has decided that Grady Ward is responsible for the recent posting
of the NUTS scriptures, the final secret of the crime cult.

Many of these 'scriptures' are simply recipes for crime, including
how to practice medicine without a license and get away with it,
in defiance of Judge Gessell's order demanding that they cease that
fraud immediately.  Nevertheless, this demented nut-cult has 
demanded a third-party expedited subpoena to obtain the records
from the University of Maryland which they claim will prove their
preposterous allegations.  

Two unnamed anonymous remailers will also be harassed in this 
bizarre fashion, though news on that is sketchy.

The deranged and idiotic cult cites as 'evidence' of their ludicrous
allegation that Grady filed a Motion to Dissolve the injunction
against him after the NUTS pack was posted, on the grounds that it
was then moot.  This is the sole 'proof' they have.  Bullshit and
lies.

So the nut-cult intends to rape remailers with no evidence at all.

- From the criminal cult's filing:

". . .strong inference that defendant (1)is or is acting in concert
with SCAMIZDAT; (2) has made postings of Plaintiff's Advanced Technology
works; (3) may have made or been acting in concert with those who
made the May 6 postings of the NOTs works for the express purpose of
undermining the injunction entered herein.  Defendant certainly let
no grass grow under his feet in attempting to take advantage to [sic] those
postings by asserting the invalidity of the injunction four days later.

"As the collusion become more and more apparent with the latest
blatant attempt to destroy RTC's trade secrets, the need for complete
and expedited discovery of defendant becomes even greater."

Not a scrap of evidence is offered that Grady Ward had anything
to do with SCAMIZDAT, is SCAMIZDAT, or even knows who SCAMIZDAT is.
Just brazen lies, bizarre accusations, and increasingly shrill
and hysterical court filings, now even including sloppy grammar,
as the cult lawyers are obviously working without sleep, and possibly
under the influence of mind-altering drugs.

In further proof of Grady Ward's guilt, the clam-cult offers the
fact that Grady Ward has exchanged email with Alex de Joode, who
operated the now-defunct remailer at utopia.hacktic.nl.  Obviously,
anyone who would associate with such a nefarious remailer operator
must also continually post NUTS packs.

In more absurd claims of the cult, they actually have the gall to
accuse him of "taking advantage" of not having a lawyer while facing
a worldwide criminal organization which has retained dozens of lawfirms
simultaneously in order to fight its frivolous lawsuits against 
everything in existence.

They are claiming that Grady Ward is somehow at an advantage over
them because he doesn't even have a lawyer.  They are also claiming,
this cult which filed hundreds of lawsuits against the IRS alone,
to dodge their taxes, that somehow the net "tricked" them into 
suing everything in sight.

They also claim that Grady Ward (and everyone on the net) obviously
keeps huge archives of mail and news, because "it is inherently 
unbelievable that defendant retypes several paragraphs of identical
wording in message after message."

In short, what the cult is claiming is that quotes ">" in USEnet
followups prove that you keep huge archives.  Apparently, these
invidious cretins have never heard of the "F" key on a keyboard.
One wonders how they manage to type a single word.  "uck you you
motherucking uckhead" just doesn't have the same "zip" without 
an "f" in there now and again, does it?

They also accuse him of keeping huge archives, despite the fact
that he doesn't keep any, because he had a list of cancelled messages
that were feloniously cancelled with forged control messages, 
despite the fact that Ron Newman's web page at
http://www.cybercom.net/~rnewman/scientology/home.html
keeps a complete tally of all the forgeries.

The cult then tries to impugn all of Grady Ward's exhibits as
"unauthenticated and hearsay," because they're USEnet posts, 
while submitting as exhibits all of Grady Ward's posts, which 
by their own claims are ALSO "unauthenticated and hearsay."

In other words, they've blown their own case out of the water!

Well, their case is doomed, but it's still entirely possible
that this imbecilic cult of droolers could cause some damage to
remailers in their last dying thrashings.

h
- --
fuckfuckfuckfuckfuckfuckfuckfuckfuckfuckfuckfuckfuckfuck
f                                                      f
u       "When you can't say 'fuck,' you can't say      u
c       'FUCK THE CDA!' -- Lenny Bruce rephrased       c
k                                                      k
fuckfuckfuckfuckfuckfuckfuckfuckfuckfuckfuckfuckfuckfuck

ObURL:  http://www.cybercom.net/~rnewman/scientology/erlich/defense-fund  

 [ For Public Key: finger henri@netcom.com ]

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.6.i
Comment: PGP signed with SigEd v1.3.1 - http://www.nyx.net/~pgregg/siged/

iQCVAgUBMaKFP2130hVrA/MJAQFaDgQAmWYgLr78HTeH7uNF9pcWnu862IokSt1d
sIR9jjlKRApSSjiOPkNInDf4XwTHUsx6VxpAV16f4d2lEJrNcoRH1sizEKnNeEi3
+V5tqsdaawzYWi6kncHfONTqElshmWnRvXh5Zs1cjW11xjoXlWn2GEViKKO8UHtm
vsK3PXuJEsg=
=+ybQ
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----





