From: nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)
Date: Sun, 11 Aug 1996 03:08:52 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: testAnguilla Censors taxBomber ..... ??
Message-ID: <199608101716.TAA05459@basement.replay.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


As of immediately, the "taxBomber's Site & Internet Offshore Center"
has been pulled by our Anguilla provider and will remain inaccessible
for a few days.

This is the work of some journalist hacks who did a major job of
character assassination by claiming that we (and our provider)
were involved in selling fake passports.

This tactics isn't exactly new or particularly original:

The Argentine press pulled a similar stunt in April, and again our
provider was pressurized to cut us off from the Web without
notice.

Needless to say, we have NEVER EVER dealt in one single fake
passport, nor have we ever offered, sold or brokered any forged,
stolen or "lost" documents. Nor is there any need to do so, if you can
get the real thing absolutely legally.

But of course, this is a political rather than a legal issue - we
were, and still are, too successful for Big Brother's liking: on our
site, ordinary people (i.e. no govt. or intelligence agency personnel)
got loads of free information on *legally* saving taxes, protecting
their assets and reffectivel guarding their privacy. While we were
and still are a commercial operation, we always made a point of being
as educative and topically exhaustive as our resources would permit.

But now, it seems, little Anguilla is getting "worried about its
international reputation".

Well, they are right, though with a vengeance: the reputation they
have most certainly lost as of today is that being of one of the
world's last truly liberal tax and data havens ...

Now for the good news: we will set up a provisional site elsewhere
soon and will announce it here on Usenet.

Still - if anyone knows of an operational site provider *outside* US
and EU jurisdiction, please drop us a line.  Your support would be
greatly appreciated and full credits given, if you so wish.
We will probably either set up a worldwide network of fallback and
mirror sites or continue our work in a new, truly innovative way to
effectively counter any censorship and dependency on site providers.

Until then, you can (still) email us at:

pt@taxbomber.com

or post your request (users permitting) to "alt.privacy",
which we will be scanning regularly.

Sorry for the inconvenience - hope to see you again soon!

the taxBomber





