From: "Vladimir Z. Nuri" <vznuri@netcom.com>
Date: Thu, 23 May 1996 10:37:12 +0800
To: snow <snow@smoke.suba.com>
Subject: the system CAN work
In-Reply-To: <Pine.LNX.3.93.960521154610.587B-100000@smoke.suba.com>
Message-ID: <199605222009.NAA01919@netcom11.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



>	I might be wrong here, but I don't think that Mr. Bell actually
>wants anyone actually shot, well, maybe he does, but what he wants is to
>have the same power over members of governments than they have over him.

the way to exercise power of the government is to organize and
wield that power. JB and others are people who have never tried
this process and in fact are dysfunctional human specimens whose
sheer irritability cause them to be incapable of successfully
interacting in a society. so, like Ted Kaczinsky, they come
up with their own novel solution.

JB reminds me of people who start to play a game, but then find
that they are losing by the rules of the game, and then throw
up the game and hit their opponent.

the rules of the game of our government are mostly fair. there
are legitimate ways to revolutionize the system, working from
the inside. those working on overthrowing it have no qualifications.
have they personally tried to organize? of course they claim
it is fruitless. but I think it is only fruitless because everyone
claims it is. if everyone acted as if it wasn't fruitless, it wouldn't
be.

the recent actions in congress regarding clipper are STRONG EVIDENCE
that our political system will respond to our demands, and more
so the more pressure we put on it. it would have been unthinkable
even say 6 months ago to imagine senators publicly opposing
Clipper. we not only have Burns outright opposing Clipper and the
Clinton administrations' stand, we also have Dole up there as
well. they have made it a MAJOR ISSUE. we have very 
strong pro-crypto bills in the works. the whole
idea of the senators even taking an INTEREST in this case was
unthinkable only a short time ago. yet the system has changed
DRAMATICALLY.

you expect the tax code to be abolished TOMORROW?? sorry, it
won't happen. but the amazing resonance of the flat tax with
Forbes this year, which again would have been unthinkable only
a few years ago, shows that strong currents are coming to bear
on the system.

do you hear any cpunks rejoicing about these new dramatic
victories and motions? no, because they are mostly a bunch of
whining nihilists, anarchists, and cynics. no matter what happens,
they will tell you that the sky is falling and Big Brother is
still hiding in your closet, that the world is hopeless so we
might as well just go out and shoot our enemies. 
they want instant gratification.
they don't want to work to have a better system, they would
much rather kill a few people in government this weekend and get the 
satisfaction from it. "ah, a job well done" they would conclude.
perhaps so, by their standards.

why am I so incensed at all the APers? because they don't realize
they will devastate our society far more than it is already 
devastated. we don't have a great system now, but what they are
proposing is an apocalypse of sanity. our system can be pressured
to change. are we acknowledging how pathetic our skills are in
manipulating politicians? how can it be that a government that
is so corrupt can have such power over you? are you saying that
you are powerless against it? 

it takes two to tango. a corrupt government is the perfect match
for a corrupt populace.





