From: mpd@netcom.com (Mike Duvos)
Date: Tue, 9 Jul 1996 12:31:43 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: [RANT] Giving Mind Control Drugs to Children
In-Reply-To: <199607081653.MAA10428@jekyll.piermont.com>
Message-ID: <199607090052.RAA03839@netcom14.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Perry Writes:

> Most people would have no particular urge to stop a child with
> diabetes from taking her insulin. Your friend seems to have the sick
> idea that they know better than the child's parents whether the child
> should be taking their meds or not, simply because the medication is
> for a "mental" problem. This isn't your friend's child. Its someone
> else's child. They have no right to make such decisions.

Since diabetes has an organic cause, this analogy with syndromes and
disorders defined solely by behavioral percentages fails.

A better model might be height, which follows a basically continuous
distribution once outliers due to functional endocrine problems are
eliminated. 

We could, of course, define a "vertical deficit disorder" (VDD) which
10% of the population have by definition, and for which the treatment
would be synthetic human growth hormone given regularly during the
growing years. 

People with VDD would probably want to be taller, and be as successful
as their peers at important things like basketball.  The specified 
treatment would certainly demonstrate effectiveness in accomplishing
this goal.  People with VDD would argue that their disease was real, 
since it was hereditary, and could be measured with complex scientific
instrumentation, like PET^H^H^HYardsticks.

Nonetheless, reputable scientists usually only perscribe HGH for persons
many standard deviations away from the norm, or who have medical disorders
which interfere with normal production of the substance.  Any doctor who
started handing out perscriptions to everyone in the shortest 10%
of the population would probably be up on malpractice charges posthaste. 

Amphetamines have demonstrated themselves to be a tricky medication even
for psychological disorders for which they were once considered 
appropriate.  ADD and its treatment plays very well into a society that
seems to feel that each and every one of life's misfortunes must be
given a name and called a disease. 

Of course, no amount of reason will disuade the True Believers from
embracing yet another disease model, and we shouldn't expect that it 
would.  But I think it is clear to many people that the forced medication
of children for the convenience of those who take care of them is
getting a bit out of control.





