From: sameer@c2.org
Date: Sat, 25 May 1996 06:25:43 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: COMMUNITY CONNEXION ANNOUNCES WORLDWIDE BETA-TEST OF THE ANONYMIZER
Message-ID: <199605241617.JAA03283@atropos.c2.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


For Immediate Release - May 24, 1996
Contact: Sameer Parekh 510-601-9777x3

	 COMMUNITY CONNEXION ANNOUNCES WORLDWIDE BETA-TEST OF
			    THE ANONYMIZER

BERKELEY, CA - Community ConneXion, Inc., The Internet Privacy
Provider, announced today the worldwide Beta release of the
"Anonymizer" service for the World-Wide-Web.

The Anonymizer allows people browsing the web to be completely
anonymous when making web transactions.  It protects people from
having the sites they visit discover their email address, hostname,
type of computer, and other potentially sensitive information.

"The Anonymizer finally brings Caller-ID-Block to the Internet," said
Justin Boyan, who designed and implemented the system.  "If you don't
want records of your activities being kept by every web site you
visit, you should definitely be using this service."

Community ConneXion ("C2") is glad to be able to provide such a
service to the Internet community free of charge.  C2's President,
Sameer Parekh, commented on the availability of this service, "We feel
that people's privacy is too important to make people pay directly for
basic privacy services.  Therefore, we've built The Anonymizer with a
model that will allow people on the Internet to use the basic level of
service at no charge."

Future enhancements to the system include support for Netscape's
Secure Sockets Layer, which will provide web surfers with the ability
not only to hide their identity from the remote site, but to hide the
identity of the sites they are browsing from their employer,
university, or ISP.  The threat of a university clamping down on the
ability of its students to browse the web freely is very strong, and
C2 plans to make this service available in order to protect against
such threats.

The Anonymizer can be accessed at http://www.anonymizer.com/.  Users
need only click on "BEGIN SURFING ANONYMOUSLY" and then choose a site
to visit anonymously.  All their web transactions from that point on
are anonymized. As the service is only in Beta phase at this point,
users may experience slow connections or downtime. As the service
moves to Production release, these problems will be eliminated.

Community ConneXion is the leading provider of privacy on the
Internet. They provide anonymous and pseudonymous internet access and
web pages in addition to powerful web service, virtual hosts, and web
design consultation. Information is available from their web pages at
http://www.c2.net/.





