From: Duncan Frissell <frissell@panix.com>
Date: Tue, 18 Jun 1996 12:57:25 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Rating Problems
Message-ID: <2.2.32.19960617201720.00753fc0@popserver.panix.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


The recent CDA decision pointed out some of the problems involved in rating
Net content.  For example, the court spent a lot of time talking about Cyber
Patrol software and the CyberNOT list "containing approximately 7000 sites
in twelve categories.  The software is designed to enable parents to
selectively block access to any or all of the twelve CyberNOT categories
simply by checking boxes in the Cyber Patrol Headquarters (the Cyber Patrol
program manager).  These
categories are:"

          Violence/Profanity:  Extreme cruelty, physical or
          emotional acts against any animal or person which are
          primarily intended to hurt or inflict pain.  Obscene
          words, phrases, and profanity defined as text that uses
          George Carlin's seven censored words more often than
          once every fifty messages or pages.

Violence against plants is OK, however.  Likewise Cypherpunks which probably
meets the 1 bad word per 50 messages standard.  I wonder if they use
Carlin's original or updated 7 Words.

          Partial Nudity:  Full or partial exposure of the human
          anatomy except when exposing genitalia.

          Nudity:  Any exposure of the human genitalia.

Only in pictures.  Text-only full-frontal nudity is OK.  Looks like baby
pictures are out though.

          Sexual Acts (graphic or text):  Pictures or text
          exposing anyone or anything involved in explicit sexual
          acts and lewd and lascivious behavior, including
          masturbation, copulation, pedophilia, intimacy and
          involving nude or partially nude people in
          heterosexual, bisexual, lesbian or homosexual
          encounters.  Also includes phone sex ads, dating
          services, adult personals, CD-ROM and videos.

Bestiality is not covered though.

          Gross Depictions (graphic or text):  Pictures or
          descriptive text of anyone or anything which are
          crudely vulgar, deficient in civility or behavior, or
          showing scatological impropriety.  Includes such
          depictions as maiming, bloody figures, indecent
          depiction of bodily functions.

There goes all of Pop Culture.  Certainly deficient in behavior.

          Racism/Ethnic Impropriety:  Prejudice or discrimination
          against any race or ethnic culture.  Ethnic or racist
          jokes and slurs.  Any text that elevates one race over
          another.

Luckily, all other forms of discrimination are OK.  Women, crips, queers,
Jews, and old folk watch out.  How politically incorrect of Cyber Patrol. 

          Satanic/Cult:  Worship of the devil; affinity for evil,
          wickedness.  Sects or groups that potentially coerce
          individuals to grow, and keep, membership.

Does that include evangelicals?  They're not Satanic but they certainly
encourage membership growth.  Some evangelicals can be quite coercive.  And
why Satanists?  Don't we have freedom of religion in this country?
Remember, the Supremes *did* throw out the Hialeah Sanitaria Animal
Sacrifice Ordinance.

          Drugs/Drug Culture:  Topics dealing with the use of
          illegal drugs for entertainment.  This would exclude
          current illegal drugs used for medicinal purposes
          (e.g., drugs used to treat victims of AIDS).  Includes
          substances used for other than their primary purpose to
          alter the individual's state of mind such as glue
          sniffing.

I'm glad my drug pages are limited to the non-entertaining uses of illegal
drugs.  Purely analgesic purposes only.

          Militant/Extremist:  Extremely aggressive and combative
          behaviors, radicalism, advocacy of extreme political
          measures.  Topics include extreme political groups that
          advocate violence as a means to achieve their goal.

There goes www.whitehouse.gov.  They certainly "advocate violence as a means
to achieve their goal."  Pretty aggressive and combative as well.  Radical.
Advocate extreme political measures.

          Gambling:  Of or relating to lotteries, casinos,
          betting, numbers games, on-line sports or financial
          betting including non-monetary dares.

There goes www.wsj.com.  *All* financial betting.

          Questionable/Illegal:  Material or activities of a
          dubious nature which may be illegal in any or all
          jurisdictions, such as illegal business schemes, chain
          letters, software piracy, and copyright infringement.

Which jurisdictions -- Singapore?  Do they mean just US jurisdictions or all
jurisdictions.  Is offshore banking dubious?  It's not illegal.

          Alcohol, Beer & Wine:  Material pertaining to the sale
          or consumption of alcoholic beverages.  Also includes
          sites and information relating to tobacco products.

Poor Joe Camel.  If Health Nazis are bad for adults, why are they good for
children?  Note guns aren't on the banned list so www.nra.org is safe for
the kiddies.

DCF





