From: nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)
Date: Wed, 7 Feb 1996 18:45:54 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: GE's Transaction Tech
Message-ID: <199602070106.CAA13461@utopia.hacktic.nl>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



GE Info Services Launches New Transaction Technology 


Rockville, Md., 6 February 1996 -- General Electric's  
GE Information Services division said it is launching a
new set of hardware and software products that will
protect business transactions over the Internet. One of
the features of the new system, called "GE
InterBusiness," involves using one-time use encryption
codes for each online session. 

The new offering combines the one-time, or dynamic,
encrypted session key, mutual authentication, and
advanced firewall technology, officials said. By using
standard Internet protocols, a user can conduct
electronic data interchange, electronic messaging, and
electronic file transfers via a secure "pipeline." Those
three elements are key in both electronic commerce and GE
Information Services' Business Productivity solutions.

Anne Biehl, manager of market development for GE
Information Services, said one of the key differentiators
between her company's secure business transaction
technology and offerings from other companies lies with
the dynamic encrypted session key. "This is the first
system on the market today, that we know of, that's using
(this technology)," she said. "It's a pretty powerful
'ring of security' for our users. It's a nice feature
we've integrated into our total solution." With the
dynamic session key, the session is encrypted to secure
all information passed from sender to receiver. The key
itself is never seen on the Internet, and hackers can't
break the encryption, officials stressed.

The new system uses the standard networking and
connectivity of the Internet to interface with systems
used by GE's 40,000-plus customer companies, officials
said. GE InterBusiness runs on all browsers, resides on
any Internet-compatible desktop, and interacts with
standard Internet applications.

GE InterBusiness is available now, Biehl said. Pricing
varies depending on the client's requirements, she said.

Biehl said today's announcement has nothing to do with
the completed sale of the group's GEnie online service to
Queens, New York-based Yovelle Renaissance Corporation,
reported last month.

For additional information, those with Internet World
Wide Web access can surf to GE Information Services' Web
site at http://www.geis.com/.

--





