From: John Young <jya@pipeline.com>
Date: Tue, 17 Dec 1996 05:50:09 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: TIS_sue
Message-ID: <1.5.4.32.19961217131004.006a82e4@pop.pipeline.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


12-16-96:

"TIS' Key Recovery Technology First To Enable General Purpose 
Export For Very Strong Encryption"

  In a development that may signal the beginning of the end of the 
  long standing encryption export control controversy, TIS today 
  announced that products using very strong cryptography with its
  RecoverKey technology have been approved for general purpose 
  export control under new export regulations.

"Encryption - BSA tries new lobbying tack"

  BSA intends to abandon its efforts to negotiate with the Clinton 
  administration on encryption export rules and will instead lobby 
  Congress for new legislation. The best hope lies with Rep. Bob 
  Goodlatte who plans to reintroduce a House bill proposing the 
  relaxation of controls at the next session next month.

"U.S. Emissary on Cryptography to Keynote RSA Data Security
Conference"

  "The RSA Conference is an opportunity for me to provide some
  insights on my mission which includes fostering a consensus on
  the development of an international key management
  infrastructure," said Ambassador Aaron.

"Pretty Darn Private"

  PGP last week unveiled PGP Cookie Cutter, a browser plug-in that 
  lets users selectively block Web "cookies."

"Smart card-PC standard proposed"

  The eight documents of the joint specifications address three
  major areas: They provide an interface to card readers; establish
  a common programming interface and control mechanism; and
  maintain compatibility with existing devices, leveraging the
  ISO structure that has been set in place over the past decade. 
  Information is available on the Web at www.smartcardsys.com.

"Web Service Provider Attacked"

  A SYN-flood attack against WebCom knocked out more than 3,000 
  Web sites for 40 hours this weekend during the busiest 
  shopping season of the year.

-----

TIS_sue  (19 kb)






