From: blanc <blancw@cnw.com>
Date: Fri, 4 Oct 1996 19:42:37 +0800
To: "cypherpunks@toad.com>
Subject: RE: gack vs. key escrow vs. key recovery
Message-ID: <01BBB187.08797720@king1-18.cnw.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


From:	Vladimir Z. Nuri, [who still doesn't get it]

what is the precise difference between gack, key escrow, and
key recovery?
  [and]

I'll be watching the debate closely, as the true extremists
incapable of compromise (and thereby living in a fantasy world)
show their colors....
...............................................................................


The precise difference is:  who is in control.

In order to understand this critical point you must understood the idea of having personal authority as a standard for living.  But you would expect that everyone should accept being subject to inspection by default, as if governments owned everyone within the national boundaries and keeping personal things away from them were a sin.

The more that governments obliterate the lines of division between what is exclusively one's own to manage and what they have "the right" to share in (including holding your extra keys) or to demand (access to private communication), the less defined the concept of individuality becomes (as compared to being a "borg" of the State) and the more difficult it becomes intellectually to uphold one's separateness from it, since it all seems to be the same, undifferentiated control over things in general ("we are all One - how could you object?").  

It is right to resist any attempts by the State to assimilate everyone into its fold by blurring the boundaries of authority (in its favor).   It is a better thing to strengthen each individual's ability to maintain their own, than to put them in a situation where they *must* use the assistance of (become dependent upon) the (supposed) benevolence and rational judgement of an overwhelming overseer.  

It is better to reserve the right of authority over who & when anyone may keep one's software keys in escrow.  It is better than to forfeit the right to make that decision on one's own good time and according to one's own plan, which would otherwise weaken that authority.   

   ..
Blanc
[If 51% of the true extremist voters would elect Harry Browne, GAK would not be a problem.]





