From: dlv@bwalk.dm.com (Dr.Dimitri Vulis KOTM)
Date: Mon, 14 Oct 1996 07:46:07 -0700 (PDT)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Anatomy of a Hoax
In-Reply-To: <3260422F.115654B7@slonet.org>
Message-ID: <73LsVD56w165w@bwalk.dm.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Path: perun!news2.panix.com!panix!feed1.news.erols.com!howland.erols.net!news.sprintlink.net!news-peer.sprintlink.net!uunet!news-in2.uu.net!news.callamer.com!news@twizzler.callamer.com
From: "Brian G. Hughes" <bhughes@slonet.org>
Newsgroups: alt.shenanigans
Subject: Anatomy of a Hoax
Message-ID: <3260422F.115654B7@slonet.org>
Date: Sat, 12 Oct 1996 18:13:19 -0700
Organization: Call America Internet Services  +1 (805) 541 6316
Lines: 47
NNTP-Posting-Host: boobs.eorbit.net
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

The press release went out in mid-week.  "Arm the Homeless
	to Donate Firearms, Training to S.L.O Homeless Community."

	Modeled after a similar ATH hoax done a few years back by
	some OSU students in Columbus, Ohio, this version had the
	press jumping.

	"[F]or someone in the underclass, a firearm works as 'the
	great equalizer,'" the press-release read.  "[A] homeless
	person with a gun is just as powerful as his wealthy or
	politically powerful counterpart..."

	The answering machine I set up to take ATH calls was soon
	swamped with interview requests from the local newspaper
	and newsweekly and the local television station.

	I wrote up a bulletin and schedule of events for our
	fictitious organization, including fund-raising rallies,
	interviews with homeless folks, and weapons training.

	I then called some friends and enlisted their help.

	Early the next week, we arranged to fake an officers meeting
	to discuss our interviews with homeless folks and decide
	which ones to donate guns to.  We then invited the press.

	The first to show was the K--- camera crew.  Shortly after
	they arrived, a confederate dressed somewhat bum-like showed
	up, rolling a shopping cart full of junk.  One of the items
	was three firearms wrapped in a ragged blanket.  The camera
	crew went nuts, and our confederate explained that he'd
	managed to pick these up on the cheap and they only had to
	be doctored a little.

	The newspaper and newsweekly reporters showed up next.  Even
	though the newspaper reporter had found out about the
	Columbus hoax on the web, the reporters stuck around and
	covered our meeting.  They so much /wanted/ to believe this
	great story that they were willing to buy any story I gave
	them.

	We were the top story at six and the number two story at
	eleven.

	Alas, the police got interested, and we didn't really want
	to get them upset (you wouldn't like him when he's angry),
	so we fessed up.  But it was good while it lasted.




