From: "E. ALLEN SMITH" <EALLENSMITH@ocelot.Rutgers.EDU>
Date: Sat, 3 Feb 1996 08:36:26 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Just what the Internet needs right now...
Message-ID: <01I0QVJK2WDSA0UTJS@mbcl.rutgers.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


	I'll try to see if I can find some bomb-making information from a
non-US web site; it may help in counterarguments. Given that I'm still not
that good at searching, it would be nice if someone else could locate it also.
	-Allen

Reuters New Media
   
   _ Friday Febuary 2 4:54 PM EST _
   
Boys Arrested for Plotting Bomb

   
   
   NEW YORK (Reuter) - Three 13-year-old boys have been accused of
   plotting to blow up their school after learning how to build a bomb
   over the Internet, police said Friday.
   
   The boys were arrested Wednesday after other students at Pine Grove
   Junior High School in Minoa, New York, heard rumors of their plans and
   police were alerted, said Capt. William Bleyle of the nearby Manlius
   police department.
   
[...]

   One of the boys, believed to be the ringleader, admitted to police
   that the three eighth graders learned how to build the bomb from
   instructions they found on the Internet, the global network accessible
   from home computers.
   
   ``The information is very easy to find,'' Bleyle said. ''It's at your
   fingertips. They just called it up.''
   
   He said police found diesel fuel, a bag of fertilizer and other items
   -- the basic materials to build a bomb-- at the first boy's house.
   
   The boys found the information using a computer at home, not at
   school, said Gary Minns, superintendent of the East Syracuse-Minoa
   school district, about 250 miles northwest of New York City. The
   school is not hooked up to the Internet but had been considering it,
   he said.
   
   ``It goes way beyond what we would consider a prank,'' Minns said.
   ``Especially from Oklahoma City and the knowledge and awareness of the
   devastation these things can cause, to think they were even
   considering doing this type of thing is extremely disturbing.''
   
[...]

   The three boys had built and tested a bomb in a field behind an
   elementary school, Bleyle said. That bomb caught fire but did not
   explode. All three, who are being charged as juveniles, are accused of
   conspiracy, he said. They have been suspended from school.
   
   Police were still investigating their motives, Bleyle said, adding
   ``It was definitely to effect destruction on the school. It was not an
   idle threat. There was actual intent to carry this through. The
   destruction could have been enormous.''




