From: attila@primenet.com
Date: Sat, 16 Nov 1996 23:46:17 -0800 (PST)
To: Dale Thorn <cypherpunks@toad.com>
Subject: Re: San Jose Mercury News declares encryption battle over
In-Reply-To: <328E8BEC.2D76@gte.net>
Message-ID: <199611170747.AAA27780@infowest.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

In <328E8BEC.2D76@gte.net>, on 11/16/96 
   at 07:52 PM, Dale Thorn <dthorn@gte.net> said:

::Point 2: I've said something like this before, but here's a place where
::it could mean something.  If c-punks and others could divvy up as many
::of the supporting functions of "strong" crypto as possible, and issue
::them in a set of commonly-available libraries for any and all programmers,
::along with source code, then an application programmer (theoretically)
::could order up some of these libraries and write some useful crypto code
::in short order.  
::
        one of the best proposals in many years --we have all made good 
    use of library code over the years, unless the simpleton coder has a
    obsessive-compulsive masochistic need to write an extra 20-50,000 
    lines of 'reinvent the wheel' code.

        there are several linkable libraries floating around, with 
    multiple types, etc.  the only one I looked at a couple of years
    ago needed some extensive work on its calling and return
    conventions --ever hear of structures?

::This would be much better than taking on thousands of
::lines of source code directly.  This would also allow several vendors to
::issue similar libraries, and surely someone on the Net could arrange
::for comparitive product reviews.

::This way, once you have a product up and running, if you (for example)
::would like to replace the XYZ function with something a little better,
::without impacting the rest of the code, you could order a replacement
::for that function and plug it in, perhaps with no code modifications.
::
        ah, yes.  reusable code for disposable programmers!

        and, I agree with the premise on widespread free distribution
    add sand to the governent grease.  make sure every college has 
    complete project kits for free and we will have a new generation of
    expert cryto-application programmers within 5 years. 
        
        needless to say,the workbook needs to mix in a subtle dose of
    freedom of speech, &c.  don't espouse our usual anarchy, etc. or 
    the school admins (always on the leaing edge of the liberals) will
    have none of it.

        every one else puts in for government money to fund these kind
    of developments --make them their junk, but lose it all at 
    distribution --or have a separate organization deal with the 
    logistics.  once you have the product, and for every platform, the
    rest of it is standard word-of-mouth, something for nothing, and
    "fun."  call the package 'voodoo' and ship with a doll fashioned 
    after Bubba  --prestuck with pins.

            -attila

- --
        maybe there is an analogy:

        militias:       the only way they'll take my weapon
                        is from my cooling, smoking hand....

        prez:           the only way they'll take my executive privileges
                        is to vote me out of office --IF I consent to leave.

                <attila>

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.6.3i
Charset: latin1
Comment: Encrypted with 2.6.3i. Requires 2.6 or later.

iQCVAwUBMo7CHb04kQrCC2kFAQHgLAP+MjgD0/ekgiQF1VBkhWQ+JOG0PrYRXg+p
F+l8zViJAigJbYwGxRlDEYm4Kl8z1ktNigLlr6t0uPbEmX4c5KPtDl4tEokrTsMk
uxLz8GB6zlKBGuDoBylbGNIGYUTXWaNhYcFL8bOcu+uRSAETsaAiPKynEkwFsigU
bgFenDTzMhc=
=1K7E
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----





