From: "<pstira@escape.com>" <pstira@escape.com>
Date: Wed, 14 Aug 1996 09:11:30 +0800
To: Vincent Cate <vince@offshore.com.ai>
Subject: Re: Anguilla / taxbomber - legality
In-Reply-To: <Pine.LNX.3.91.960811004757.1724B-100000@offshore>
Message-ID: <Pine.BSI.3.91.960813175054.12576C-100000@escape.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


I have never, nor do I ever plan to, use any sort of documentation other 
than that which this police state shoves down my throat, but I do wish to 
point something QUITE OBVIOUS out, which is that MANY places sell camoflauge
passports, including Delta Press, several "police supply catalogs", 
alternative book catalogs (Such as Eden Press, which I *know* some of you 
have used, judging by your explosives knowledge ;)), and so on.  There is 
NO reason to single out taxbombers site for camo passports.  They *do* 
have legitimate usages, including terrorist situations when you don't 
want to be identified as an American (on a plane hijacking for example, 
American's are "white meat", because our country understands and responds 
to public sympathy much more than most -- whatever THAT means).  What I 
am trying to get at is that camoflauge passports are NOT illegal -- they 
are for countries which no longer exist and are unusable at customs, at 
any foreign checkin point, and so on.  They have specific usages, and 
specific reasons for being cheap (running between 50 to 500 bucks, tops).

The other passports?  Go to most 2nd or third world countries, offer to 
buy so much land, and I'd be surprised if you don't walk away with some 
sort of official documentation.  There's a difference between being a 
broker (which it is my understanding taxbomber is) and being a forger or 
smuggler.  But then, I do not know the parties in question and can only 
make assumptions.

Loompanics has several books about getting foreign passports. for a bunch 
of people who do not care for the lack of freedom in encryption, privacy, 
etc, you sure seem like (pardon my phrasing) hard-asses when it comes to 
other peoples much of the time... :)

What's that saying about liberty not going away all at once, but being 
nibbled away, for expedience and by parts?

Millie, from her boyfriends account.
(if you have a beef with me, send it to
sfuze@sunspot.tiac.net -- otherwise, have a nice day :))






