From: The Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition             <wsj-announce@interactive.wsj.com>
Date: Sun, 30 Jun 1996 08:09:15 +0800
To: Multiple recipients of list WSJ-ANNOUNCE3             <WSJ-ANNOUNCE3@LISTSERV.DOWJONES.COM>
Subject: Important News from The Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition
Message-ID: <v02130503adfa48d0a6e4@[143.131.186.21]>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Dear Wall Street Journal reader:

If you haven't visited the Money & Investing Update in a while, we wanted to
let you know we've made some dramatic changes.  On April 29, we became The
Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition (http://wsj.com).

That means we've expanded, to bring you the entire spectrum of business
coverage provided by The Wall Street Journal. You'll see not only our
pioneering, continually updated coverage of the markets, but all the most
important stories in technology, marketing, the law--even sports and weather.

We've also added new features we hope make the Interactive Edition even more
useful, such as Personal Journal, which enables you to create your own
personalized view of today's news, and the ability to build and monitor your
own personal stock portfolio.

As a trial subscriber to Money & Investing Update, we are eager to have you
try the Interactive Edition.  So, your User Name and Password for the Update
are valid for the Interactive Edition as well.  Plus, as a special thank you
for your early support, your access to the Interactive Edition WILL CONTINUE
TO BE FREE THROUGH AUGUST 31, 1996, after which time a very modest
subscription fee will be required to continue.

But remember, NO CREDIT CARD OR OTHER PAYMENT INFORMATION is required until
after August 31, and ONLY THEN if you decide you want to join us as a paid
subscriber.  Until then, read the Interactive Edition as often as you like
at no charge.

To see the Interactive Edition, you can jump directly to the front page at
http://wsj.com/edition/current/summaries/front.htm, or take a brief tour of
the most interesting new features at http://wsj.com/tour.htm.

We look forward to hearing your reactions to our interactive efforts, since
the comments of readers like you have already played a powerful role in
shaping our future.  Please write us at the address below with any questions
or comments.

Neil Budde
Editor
The Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition
info@interactive.wsj.com

P.S.  If you experienced difficulty accessing the Interactive Edition during
our first few weeks, we apologize.  Reader interest completely exceeded our
expectations.  However, we've made a number of major system improvements
since then and we encourage you to come back and try again.

--------------------------------------------

If you don't want to receive future mail from the WSJ-ANNOUNCE list, simply
reply to this message with UNSUBSCRIBE WSJ-ANNOUNCE3 in the message body.




