From: Majordomo@c2.org
Date: Wed, 15 May 1996 13:22:38 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Welcome to clueless
Message-ID: <199605141836.LAA11869@infinity.c2.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


--

Welcome to the clueless mailing list!

If you ever want to remove yourself from this mailing list,
you can send mail to "Majordomo@c2.org" with the following command
in the body of your email message:

    unsubscribe clueless cypherpunks@toad.com

Here's the general information for the list you've
subscribed to, in case you don't already have it:

Welcome to clueless!

You have subscribed to the forefront of online unsubscribe education.

The clueless list is dedicated to fostering new and creative unsubscribe
methods and promoting passionate and caustic discussion of same.  We
welcome all manner of discussion on the best ways to unsubscribe from
mailing lists and particularly mailing lists to which you have not
intentionally subscribed or have grown bored of.

We recognize that unsubscribing is a complicated and involved process, and
that often it is much more difficult than subscribing.

You are not alone.

HERE'S THE BOTTOM LINE:  Mailing lists were founded by interest groups who
need a CAPTIVE audience.  Making it easy to unsubscribe is not in their
interest.  They want EVERY SINGLE person they can find to be CORRUPTED by
their brainwashing ideas.  You're dealing with the SCUM OF THE PLANET.
The speed and power of the internet threaten to DESTROY your mind and
CRIPPLE your fingers.  You need WORLD CLASS unsubscribe powers to protect
yourself.

The founder of the list, fed up with the complexity and spelling
challenges of unsubscribing, started a small distribution list of like
minded individuals in 1981.  Meeting in secret and developing their
methods covertly, the clueless members grew in size until, in 1994, their
ranks were too large to support with a mere pine mailing program.  The
clueless list was born.  With the advent of the clueless list, attempts to
obscure the unsubscribe process are now futile.  The elders of the
clueless list have perfected the most AMAZING AND EFFECTIVE unsubscribe
methods known anywhere in the world.  They are 100% ASSURED to unsubscribe
you 100% of the time WITH AMAZING accuracy and speed.

The BEST unsubscribing system in the WORLD for FAST learning and
ULTRA-CONFIDENCE in the world of mailing lists.

Have faith!

You will learn how to unsubscribe quickly.  You will learn how any
person of any size can unsubscribe from any list with a single e-mail
message.  We promise. You will not forget how either.  Trust us.

FAQ:

What kind of questions should I ask?

Anything that has to do with mailing lists, or any question you may have
about e-mail at all.  Mostly anything goes.  There are several people
willing to engage you in discussions on the subject here.  The first rule
is that there are no stupid questions.

What should I post?

There is only one effective post limitation.  Unsubscribe solutions or
suggestions that are less than 2 lines long are unwelcome.

Who is the list owner?

The list owner prefers to remain anonymous.  Should he or she be
identified publically, the torrents of requests for the release his or her
amazing secret and TOTALLY FOOLPROOF unsubscribe methods would be
oppressive.

Good luck, and welcome to the list.

If you are clueless, or you know someone who is, you can get assistance
by sending mail to clueless-request@c2.org saying "help".

The "clueless" mailing list is for people who need to learn to read
instructions on mailing list managers, and haven't figured out that
they can unsubscribe from lists using the same automated list-manager
software that they used to subscribe.  It's also helpful for people
who don't know standard Internet mailing list conventions that
"foolist-request" provides information or services for "foolist",
or who complain to a mailing list because the listserv/majordomo server
wasn't a human and didn't respond to English-language requests.

And it's a nice place to meet other clueless people!

For further reference, you can find more information about "RTFM"
on the Web from www.altavista.digital.com , www.yahoo.com , and
many other fine search engines near you.





