From: Scottauge@aol.com
Date: Sat, 10 Aug 1996 23:42:59 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: National Socio-Economic Security Need for Encryption Technology
Message-ID: <960810081520_381433332@emout13.mail.aol.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


I was watched CBS reports a couple nights ago about how all these blue collar
and now white collar jobs are going across seas.

How programmers in India are taking jobs away from us, programmers and
engineerss, the people pioneering them.  (Actually I know some Indian based
programmers and they are worked very hard, even being locked in a building
until they meet some deadline.  This is not conducive to quality work, just
enough to get ya back home to family.)

(Hmmm, the Pioneer Crypto-System, I think I like that name and it has a
specific purpose....)

So I was thinking, boy am I glad I am in a rather esoteric part of software
development where there is not much knowledge and how we, in this particular
field, have an unwritten rule about sharing knowledge with others - even
those trying to get a foot into the door.  (I'm a contractor and there is a
supply and demand thing going on - I like low supply and high demand for my
particular skill sets.)

White collar jobs are basically knowledge worker jobs, and if one does not
know how to do something, one cannot do it.

So a possible way to protect jobs is to protect the knowledge on how to do
them.  

>From who could be an interesting question.  Obviously some companies would be
interested in sharing the knowledge amongst the non-US tax paying population
of the world, thereby reducing income and taxes collected and thus needing to
raise taxes once again to pay for "rights" and entitlements the government
"gives" away to the citizens and non-citizens of this country.... but, I am
beginning to rant and rave.

Perhaps there is a larger picture in the world that the cyperpunks mailing
list is missing.  That cryptography is not just for personal privacy, but
could involve job security also - as a matter of fact, the income base for
this whole country.

In essence, knowledge is money, cuz that is what we usually want for it
now-a-days.  "Oh you want me to do that for you, hmmmm, lets see...."

Maybe a discussion could happen on protection of knowledge in a
socio-economic realm.




