From: Tim Philp <bplib@wat.hookup.net>
Date: Wed, 7 Feb 1996 12:30:11 +0800
To: "E. ALLEN SMITH" <EALLENSMITH@ocelot.Rutgers.EDU>
Subject: Re: Fair Credit Reporting Act and Privacy Act
In-Reply-To: <01I0WOIQESFIA0UV0C@mbcl.rutgers.edu>
Message-ID: <Pine.OSF.3.91.960206225721.6807B-100000@nic.wat.hookup.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


On Tue, 6 Feb 1996, E. ALLEN SMITH wrote:

> 	So you're prepared for everyone to pay more, but not for those who
> want privacy to pay more? While I do support taxes to pay for a minimal amount
> of welfare, I don't think that much intrusion into private property rights is
> justified.
> 	-Allen
> 
	I think that you may have misunderstood just what my position is.
There are circumstances that people are faced with in our modern society
that compel them to release data about themselves. Here I am speaking
about the information required if you want to use credit cards, have a
telephone, use health insurance, pay income tax ( could do without this
one! <G>), or register to vote. I do not believe that it is unreasonable
that the organizations that collect this data should be compelled to keep
this information confidential.  
	When I spoke about the price to pay, I was speaking somewhat
metaphorically in that it is possible to keep this information to your
self and not have to PAY anything. The actual PRICE that is paid is that
you are not able to participate fully in our society. I don't believe that
you can equate this type of price that you pay in social currency with an
actual price that you pay because merchants must assume more risk. 
	In an earlier message to this thread, it was suggested that I
should not call down the forces of the state ("lets pass a law") to deal 
with this issue. I wish that it could be dealt with in another way. If 
personal information is not controlled, it will work towards the 
detriment of the individual. My personal opinion is that the state exists 
to serve the individual, not to control him. In our current society an 
individual has little control over the release of personal data, 
therefore the state should legitimatly protect the individual. If you 
wish to control your own information, you must be prepared to be a real 
hard case.
Regards,
Tim Philp





