From: daw@orodruin.CS.Berkeley.EDU (David A Wagner)
Date: Wed, 21 Feb 1996 14:13:51 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: PGP integrated into Z-Mail
Message-ID: <9602202130.AA09986@espresso.CS.Berkeley.EDU.mammoth>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


NCD/Z-Mail announces that they've integrated PGP support into their
popular email client.  This is good news, folks.

A chicken in every pot, and PGP on every desktop!

ObDisclaimer: I've not tried their PGP interface; I'm not associated
	with Z-Mail; I know no history; I always misquote everyone.

--

Press Contacts:

Mike Harrigan			Richard Burger/Shari Dupart
NCD Software Corporation		Miller/Shandwick Technologies
(415) 919-2886			415/962-9550
mikeh@ncd.com			rburger@millerwest.com
				sdupart@millerwest.com

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

NCD Software Unveils New Integrated Security Solution for Z-Mail for 
Windows, Optimizing Internet Mail Protection

New ViaCrypt PGP Solution, Customized for Z-Mail, Brings Users Special 
Encryption, Decryption and Digital Signature Capabilities

	E-MAIL WORLD, San Jose, Calif., February 20, 1996 - NCD 
Software Corporation today unveiled a new optional security feature for its 
Z-Mail for Windows electronic messaging client, offering users the best 
integrated point-to-point security now available for Internet e-mail.
	ViaCrypt, a division of Lemcom Systems, Inc., worked with NCD 
Software to develop and customize the integration of Z-Mail for Windows and 
ViaCrypt(TM) PGP(TM) software.  With just a few clicks of the mouse, Z-Mail 
customers using ViaCrypt PGP can now encrypt the e-mail message bodies and 
arbitrary data file attachments they send, as well as apply digital signatures.  
Receivers can use ViaCrypt PGP to decrypt the messages and files and to 
verify the signatures.  NCD Software unveiled the new person-to-person 
security feature today at E-Mail World, Booth 434, in San Jose, CA.
	Z-Mail is NCD Software's award-winning cross-platform e-mail 
software.  Based on Internet-standard protocols that include POP, SMTP and 
MIME, Z-Mail has been acclaimed for its ease of use and highly integrated 
features, including a powerful scripting language, Z-Script, for enhanced 
customization capabilities.
	ViaCrypt PGP allows Z-Mail users to create, send and read secure 
messages by simple menu selection.  The integration of ViaCrypt PGP into 
Z-Mail was achieved through Z-Mail's exclusive scripting capabilities and a 
front-end built specifically for  by ViaCrypt.  Message bodies as well as arbitrary 
file attachments are secured through public-key cryptography:  only the person 
with the corresponding private key can unlock the encrypted file. 
	Digital signatures, another valuable security application provided 
by ViaCrypt PGP, allow  users to verify that the message they received was 
sent by a specific person and that the message was not altered.
	"Security has become our customers' primary consideration when it 
comes to Internet mail," said Mike Harrigan, vice president of marketing at 
NCD Software.  "The integrated solution of Z-Mail and ViaCrypt PGP reflects 
our commitment to provide our corporate customers with an easy, secure e-mail 
system."
	Dave Barnhart, product manager at ViaCrypt, commented, 
"Combined with the new ViaCrypt PGP encryption and decryption features, 
Z-Mail now gives users a simple point-and click solution for assuring security 
when conducting critical business transactions via the Internet."
	Z-Mail for Windows is available from NCD Software, and is priced 
at $165 for single users and $95 per user for 200-user licenses.  ViaCrypt PGP, 
which includes the front end that integrates it with Z-Mail for Windows, is priced 
at $169.00 for single users and $50 per user for 200 to 499 user licenses.  It is 
available now from ViaCrypt and will be available from NCD in March.
	A full review of Z-Mail for Windows and other Z-Mail products is 
available over NCD Software's site on the World Wide Web at 
http://www.ncd.com/Z-Code/zcode.html, or via e-mail at info@z-code.com.  
ViaCrypt information is available over the Web at http://www.viacrypt.com.
	NCD Software Corporation is a wholly owned subsidiary of 
Network Computing Devices, Inc. (NASDAQ: NCDI).  The company provides 
desktop information access solutions for network computing environments.  
NCD Software Corporations is a major supplier of network software products, 
including PC-Xware software integrating Microsoft Windows and DOS-based 
PCs into X/UNIX networks, Marathon, a TCP/IP network foundation, and 
Z-Mail, a cross-platform electronic-mail and messaging system for open systems 
environments.




