From: Moroni <moroni@scranton.com>
Date: Mon, 23 Dec 1996 17:44:39 -0800 (PST)
To: Michael Gurski <mgursk1@umbc.edu>
Subject: Re: Legality of requiring credit cards?
In-Reply-To: <Pine.OS2.3.95.961222151556.7261A-100000@klinzhai.nanticoke.net>
Message-ID: <Pine.LNX.3.95.961223202858.10058A-100000@user1.scranton.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


    I am glad that someone has raised this issue. Two things for myself.
Years ago I had both a checking account and a Visa card. i did not want
the interest on my Visa so I asked the clerk at Lechter's to take my check
with the drivers licensce and they said I had to show a credit card. Then
the bitch wrote my whole life's hiustory on the check. The dirver's
licensce number, my home phone number , other stuff and all the
information contained on the credit card(incidentally some inluding I
think Lechter's want at least 6 months left on the card.), I hit the roof
. They had enough information for anyone of the dozens of bank,store or
business people to really do a job on my life. I just walked out . Then
they refused me another time because there wasn't enough months left and
eventually wouldn't let me use the card at all because it had
expired(though I and my ID hadn't).
     Scenario number two was recently at the Software Etc store in
Scranton ,Pa where much to my consternation I found that the store had
written my date of birth on the check. And there is a cute younger guy
there that I like to talk shop to. SHIT.).I think that this stuff has
really gotten out of hand. 
     Maybe , the answer to all our problems is to draft a privacy bill in
varous forms and stages and each member of the list submit it to his or
her representative,congressman or senator. That is something that can
legally be done and it is practical. I say stages because what we want
will never pass the first time in its  entirety BUT we could conceiveably
get something started.
      Anybody interested email me personally as I am willing and albe to
do a share of the work.
      I will be unavailable from late Christmas eve until at least the 31
December . I will be at the cuervocon at the FT.Brown Hotel (Holiday Inn
side) for the conference that Friday and Saturday(see Cuervocon page).
                         Thanks in Advance 
                              Jappy Jolidays
                                  Deirdre A. Greene

















       xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
       x   No success can compensate for failure in the home.  x
       x                                                       x
       xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx





