From: tcmay@got.net (Timothy C. May)
Date: Sun, 4 Feb 1996 12:38:46 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: New sig, let me know what you think!
Message-ID: <ad39741804021004fe2d@[205.199.118.202]>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Since Clinton is getting ready to sign the Exon Amendment/Communications
Decency Act/Telecom Bill, with some amazingly restrictive rules about what
kind of material can be sent over computers (especially if there's a chance
anyone under the age of 18 can see it), I have been worried about the
implications for my hobby. You see, I am also an amateur Biblical scholar,
and have been working on my "Modern Vernacular Translation."

For most of my messages involving speech, the CDA, censorship, etc., I plan
to include part of my translation as a kind of inspirational quote. Surely
Sen. Exon will not object to this material as "indecent"? After all, it's
the word of God.

I threw this together quickly, excerpting some online versions of the
Bible. Others could do the same thing, by quoting salacious material from
other sources. The letters of Thomas Jefferson, for example? Or
Congressional testimony itself, maybe stuff from the Meese Commission
reports? Juicy stuff there. Is the CDA going to make quoting from the
Congressional Record a crime? (I suppose it ought to be....)

--Tim May

[This Bible excerpt awaiting review under the Communications Decency Act]
And then Lot said, "I have some mighty fine young virgin daughters. Why
don't you boys just come on in and do em right here in my house - I'll just
watch!"....Later, up in the mountains, the younger daughter said. "Dad's
getting old. I say we should do him." So the two daughters got him drunk and
did him all that night. Sure enough, Dad got em pregnant....Onan really
hated the idea of doing his brother's wife and getting her pregnant while
his brother got all the credit, so he whacked off first....Remember, it's
not a good idea to have sex with your sister, your brother, your parents,
your pet dog, or the farm animals. [excerpts from the Old Testament, Modern
Vernacular Translation, TCM, 1996]






