From: Jim Choate <ravage@EINSTEIN.ssz.com>
Date: Sat, 3 Aug 1996 19:00:27 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: A Libertine Question (fwd)
Message-ID: <199608030921.EAA12012@einstein>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text



Forwarded message:

> Date: Sat, 03 Aug 1996 00:18:38 -0700
> From: Cerridwyn Llewyellyn <ceridwyn@wolfenet.com>
> Subject: Re: A Libertine Question (fwd)
> 
> I disagree with your sentiments about Business and rights, however, in this
> instance, even that wasn't the issue. Food Not Bombs is NOT a business, it's
> a not-for-profit organization that gives out (not sells) food.  They are the
> same as, I think Tim May pointed out, a Boy Scout picnic, except for the 
> homless, not the boy scouts.

Then we have a clear case of abuse of power and if the folks at FNB don't
pursue this then they deserve the ignominy they receive. What is the current
status? Have counter suites been filed? What was the ACLU and NAACP (I am
assuming that everyone at FNB is not anglo-saxon and named 'Fletcher')
responce to requests for aid? Have they begun a petition or whatever the
city charter allows demanding the ouster of those in charge? What is the
Libertarian Party there doing? Has anyone contacted the Justice Dept. and
begun the proceeding for a civil rights suit? If these folks seriously went
out there not prepared to fight then the issues must not be very important to
them, perhaps a simple publicity stunt to get their 15 minutes and not realy
to help the homeless/foodless? Has anyone made reference to the judges
comments in the CDA trial regarding speech and chaos?

While the city acted illegaly, nobody has stated if the city categoricaly
prohibits such activities which was the point I was originaly trying to
express. Was this a isolated incident originating with the poor decision of
a single individual in the HD or was it organized? Have similar responces
occured before?

Every year on Halloween a bunch of folks here in Texas go down to the State
Capital at about 10pm and sit around and smoke pot for about an hour. The
city police have no jurisdiction on the capital grounds and the DPS officers
pretty much stand around and make shure things don't get out of hand. I have
never known of anyone being arrested but then again the place is crawling
with video and lawyers ready to pounce. I would contend that one of the
reasons that no actions are taken is that the event is organized and the
folks come prepared to go to jail and fight if need be.


                                               Jim Choate





