From: attila <attila@primenet.com>
Date: Wed, 2 Oct 1996 18:04:59 +0800
To: jim bell <cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Can we kill single DES?
In-Reply-To: <199610020201.TAA10143@mail.pacifier.com>
Message-ID: <199610020501.XAA14527@infowest.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


In <199610020201.TAA10143@mail.pacifier.com>, on 10/01/96 
   at 07:01 PM, jim bell <jimbell@pacifier.com> said:

-.Reluctantly, I'd have to say that I don't think this is a good idea.  If 
-.anything, what this would inadvertently demonstrate is how difficult (at 
-.least, with non-dedicated hardware) it is to crack DES. 

        basicly, we're proving that the Feds are a fraud, giving the
    public a gift of something that NSA can blow it away in real time.
    If the project is not ballyhoo'd when we're getting our act 
    together, and it goes underground when the team and fab is 
    ready to role, we won't have the Clinton-speak media taunting us,
    or screaming for our capture and obliteration....

        basically, shock is an effective  communicator, just like the
    networks find it necessary to hustle more bombings, more
    death and pain &C to get attention.  grab 'em by the short hairs
    and give them a good shake or two.

        we might even be perceived as a good, not evil force...  but
    I doubt it; the press mentality is too low.

        no, I certainly do not think hardware in particular is a bad 
    idea.  

-.I assume 
-.that it would be generally straighforward to build a cracking chip that 
-.tries 10 million keys per second, with a great deal of internal parallelism 
-.and pipelining.  
-.

-.Now, THAT sounds like a real threat!

        particulary if the design emphasizes unlimited linear extension!  

-.An even more ominous configuration would involve perhaps 50 
-.chips per full-length board, seven boards installed in a stripped-down  PC, 
-.which would produce a crack in 4 months average with one system alone.
-.
        without a doubt, this is the best approach, but you will find
    the chassis have a mix of ISA and PCI, or in some cases like I
    specify, they will be EISA and PCI .   

        I know where there is a 20 slot PCI passive backplane in a 
    rack mount for $350 and I think the vendor has P133 cards with 
    either 128 or 512 M 72 pin slots.  512M is about 4,000 smackaroos
    at this point.

        PCI is much easier to interface than ISA and you have the bus
    bandwidth to support the processor to co-processor transfer rates.

        I'm not going to go through the mental masturbation of what DSPs
    and FNGAs could manage in iterations/second until there is a firmer
    design, but 350 chain/parallel or tiered chips sounds like it might
    be more than 10% of the way to a terawhatever.
 
-.So how would all this be done?  First, write a serious proposal for the 
-.project and circulate it among companies with fab capacity.

        disagree, I would not even consider begging at the door of any
    charitable fab until the design, and probably the layout, is in 
    the can.  we might find it necessary to expand the trace depending
    on the capabilities of the offered facilty, thereby by burning 
    both more power, and reducing our yield per wafer.  

        secondly, circulating a proposal among the hungry pack is
    shopping around, which is almost always suicidal in raising money
    and finding manufacturing partners.  they all know each other, and
    you will end up with a "decision by commitee" and we know
    committees are always formed to absolve the participants of blame
    for failing to act, or whatever.

        on the other hand, I may personally have a rather strong 
    distaste for selected reviewing, but it does give a taker some-
    thing to crow about, that he was honoured to float this little 
    package....  part of this is getting to the 'good-feeling' state
    where the CEO thinks he will be a hero.

-.Likewise, find a politically-sympathetic designer with access to IC 
-.layout software, etc.

        that, and determining what form or methodology will optimize
    the design itself, are the two criticial first steps.  until that is 
    resolved,  nothing should be done; and get a provisional layout
    before finding the big sponser.  

-.The way I see it, there has to be a huge amount of 
-.unused 0.5-0.7 micron IC capacity around the world.
-.
        yes, in older fabs. but the < 1u lines are loaded as of the
    August summary.

-.Remember, we're only 
-.talking about a few hundred wafers.
-.
        the real issue is a working prototype --if it's ready to go,
    there should be no trouble persuading a fab to run a batch.
    I think the Tylan and Therm etchers are loading about 100
    six inch wafers and eight inch may be on line.  a six inch
    wafer has 27 sqin total and depending on the size of the 
    individual 

-.Anyway, the way I see it, you're probably going to burn up over a million 
-.dollars worth of ELECTRICITY alone on a single crack with Pentiums. 
-.
        4500 machines for $1M per year power?

-.Maybe Microsoft would be willing to help?  After all, it is THEY who are 
-.going to be limited to DES-strength exports if things continue as they've 
-.been going.

        you wish to hand over the project to Billy?  so all our good 
    designers are shunted off into never-never land as Billy stands 
    up in the spotlight and claims it was his brain, and the muscle he
    created in MicroSlop, who proved his boot sector virus and pretty
    programmer whupped the big bad government, who was trampling on
    our rights?  

            "I, and I mean 'I and my billions,' solved this trivial 
            DES problem, and I, and I mean 'I,' am the champion of 
            your god given rights as promised in the Bill of Rights."

        count me out; Billy and Big Ears are a perfect pair, they think
    they walk on the same water!   

-.How about Intel?

        well, at least Andy Grove would not pull a Bill Gates. however,
    Grove and company are very bottom line oriented and turn around
    has been proven to be pretty slow in most of their fab plants --but
    they have a special section of engineering knock-up.   I believe 
    both Silicon Gulch and Hillsboro have 'em. 

        the real issue will be to find a reason for Intel to be able 
    to mass produce the chip for something else --maybe use an FPGA
    type design, or a digital filtering processor architecture 
    --easier to correct small mistakes, too.  If the KISS principle is 
    used exclusively,  and mutiple step-and-repeats for the layouts,
    a large house like Intel could make real short work of it.

        one more round...
            --attila


--
  "I don't make jokes. 
    I just watch the government and report the facts."
        --Will Rogers





