From: weffross@counsel.com (Walter A Effross -- American Univ. - Washington )
Date: Sun, 14 Jul 1996 23:12:04 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Call for Papers
Message-ID: <9607141157.AA08978@ad0.reach.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



        The American University Law Review encourages submissions
for possible publication in its upcoming Symposium Issue on The
Electronic Future of Cash.  American University's Washington
College of Law is now planning a full-day conference to accompany
the publication of this issue in the Spring of 1997.

        Topics of interest include, but are not limited to:

        -- Consumer Protection.  The relative advantages and
disadvantages to consumers of debit cards, smart cards, on-line
cash accounts, electronic checks, digital scrip, and other forms
of electronic payment for "cash" transactions ("Electronic Cash"),
especially as contrasted with payment by cash, paper checks, and
credit cards.  The current or potential application of consumer
protection statutes and regulations to forms of Electronic Cash.

        -- Uniform Commercial Code.  The extent to which the UCC
and associated regulations already cover, or should be extended or
modified to cover, Electronic Cash.

        -- "E-Bank" Regulation.  The regulation of issuers of
Electronic Cash.

        -- Criminality.  The applicability and creation of laws
concerning crimes (counterfeiting, money-laundering, electronic
ransom payments, etc.) involving Electronic Cash.

        -- Privacy, Encryption, and Anonymity.  The extent to
which the privacy of merchants and consumers engaging in
transactions with Electronic Cash can and should be legally
protected.

        -- Security Concerns.  Legal issues involving the
protection of Electronic Cash systems from hackers, fraudulent
participants, and other security threats.

        -- Microtransactions.  Legal issues concerning the
implementation and regulation of on-line systems that involve
payments of small amounts of Electronic Cash by consumers to
service or content providers.

        -- Interstate and International Aspects.  (e.g.,
Jurisdiction, Choice of Law, Taxation).

        -- Role of the Federal Government.  Should the Government
be setting the ground rules for competition among systems and
varieties of Electronic Cash?  Selecting one or more systems for
national implementation?  Or just allowing the market to decide?

        Submissions should be approximately 100 double-spaced
pages in length, written in traditional law review format with
sufficient footnotes and documentation.  Citations should conform
to The Bluebook: A Uniform System of Citation (15th ed.1991).
        Papers should be received by The Law Review by October 1,
1996, and will be selected within two weeks of this deadline.
Authors of papers accepted for publication will be expected to
confirm within seven days after acceptance their agreement to
contribute these papers to the Symposium Issue.
        Submissions should be made in hard copy to: The American
University Law Review/Electronic Cash Symposium, Heather J.
Russell/Senior Articles Editor, Washington College of Law, 4801
Massachusetts Avenue, N.W., Suite 617, Washington, DC  20016.
        Questions can be addressed to Professor Walter A. Effross,
[voice] (202) 274-4210, [fax] (202) 274-4130, [e-mail]
weffross@counsel.com.







