From: mpd@netcom.com (Mike Duvos)
Date: Tue, 23 Jul 1996 15:39:03 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Slavery: An Idea Whose Time Has Come
In-Reply-To: <ae198a8413021004fe17@[205.199.118.202]>
Message-ID: <199607230510.WAA05336@netcom23.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


tcmay@got.net (Timothy C. May) wrote:

 > Yes, he owned slaves. Makes me rethink my position on
 > slave-owning....

Many perfectly good social models have been trashed by the
excesses of history.  Eugenics will most certainly always be
associated in the public mind with anti-Semitism, and slavery
with racism against Blacks.

Modern slavery, if there were such a thing, would probably be
pretty benevolent.  Anyone would be able to sell themselves into
slavery, and anyone would be able to buy their way out of it.

Slave owners would be responsible for a slave's health care,
education, recreation, pocket money, retirement income, and would
not be able to hit, verbally abuse, or work their slaves more
than a certain number of hours a day.  They would also not be
able to break up families.

Slaves would undoubtedly be able to vote, have their own powerful
union, and a track record for suing owners who didn't toe the
line.

Slavery would be a popular with homeless people, and with young
people forced to live in toxic home environments.  No parent
would want the public shame of having their child choose slavery
over living at home.

Many people might even prefer the lifestyle, with a guaranteed
standard of living absent any worries about job security, money,
or competition.  Just get up and put in an honest day's work, and
all your needs are taken care of.  The expense of downtime is the
owner's problem.

There would be certain vocations, like Cobol programming, which
would be especially suited to being performed by slaves.
Microsoft would probably own thousands of contented slaves, who
would sing happily as they wrote code.

"Manufactured 100% by slave labor" would be a cherished label,
and the people who bought such products would know that their
money was going to help eliminate many social ills, like
homelessness, unemployment, foster care, and revenues for the
public school system.  Kathie Lee Gifford would have to defend
herself for not owning enough slaves to make her proper
contribution to the community. 

But I digress... :)





