From: jf_avon@citenet.net (Jean-Francois Avon (JFA Technologies, QC, Canada))
Date: Sat, 3 Feb 1996 11:37:59 +0800
To: Philip Zimmermann <prz@acm.org>
Subject: Re: PGP "official" logo?
Message-ID: <9602030250.AB01223@cti02.citenet.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Cc: CypherPunks

Philip Zimmermann <prz@acm.org>, replied to me:

>I'd like to see some suggested logos.  I am closing in on a design
>for a PGPfone logo.
>
>Phil

Well, I tend to believe that you are not reading Cypherpunks currently...

I got some reply that told me that, basically, the inherent anarchy of 
CPunks would make it impossible to hold a vote.  Some even questionned
the utility of a logo.  Some other said that many peoples use non-graphical
software.

While I think that a logo is a nice idea,  I never 
even considered designing one myself before somebody mentionned 
the idea, today on CPunks.

IMO, I think that a logo would appeal to non-techies.  The typical non-
techie attitude is to *ignore* anything he/she does not understand.  The 
proposed label "PGP signed" or similar would not have the effect a good
logo would on certain persons.

A logo could make PGP look "cool".  I am not prejudiced against trying to
attract peoples who would not look up by themselves, especially considering 
the actual condition of the net.

Refuting the usefullness of a logo would be an expression of the 
opinion that dumbness is uncurable.
MHO on it is that while dumbness will always exist, *specific individuals* 
could be educated.  This is especially true of the youngs. And beside, 
the masses never made anything change for the better... 

In this optic, and regarding the fact of the immense popularity of 
software that requires little computer knowledge, I think that a logo 
is not only appropriate but also necessary, if encryption issues are to 
be resolved in our favor.

Many techies, and many members of CPunks are of this type, scorn at the
"uneducated" public.  It is a great mistake they do.  Not because they
have have a duty to the public, but because in the "public", lives 
intelligent individual that, for a multitude of reasons, did not 
follow the same path as them.  They owe it to themselves, our of selfishness
to spread their vision of the world

Regards


JFA  B.Sc. Physics

P.S. Thanks for having written PGP.





