From: Chuck <chuck@nova1.net>
Date: Sat, 21 Dec 1996 14:59:30 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: EBONIC.ORG
Message-ID: <1.5.4.32.19961221215040.006cb3d4@mail.nova1.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Lets stop complaining and do something to promote dialectic harmony.  How
about an online Ebonics/English dictionary?  Yesterday, I acquired the
domain <ebonic.org> for this purpose (ebonics.org and com were already
assigned). In the spirit of inter-dialectic cooperation, I hereby offer it
for use as an online dictionary.

This is, of course, a time-consuming effort to both design and maintain, so
offers of help will be greatly appreciated.  It seems to me that a
guestbook-type function might be the best way to allow interested parties to
add words, their definitions and pronunciation guides to the dictionary.
What do you think?  We might want to consider an opportunity for
illustrations too.  It seems to me that many of the Ebonics expressions I've
heard are emphasized through the use of gestures - often with multiple
digits pointing in various directions.

In order not to be seen as uncaring, I think it would be nice to ask the
Oakland School District to help.  After all, if anyone should know the
dialect, it would be them.  Of course, this will be an ongoing effort,
considering that the dialect will change with each new malapropism spouted
by some thirteen-year-old rap star with a learning disability.

Lets be clear about this. It will certainly be in the best interest of every
American  citizen to understand Ebonics.  Had this issue been raised prior
to the last election, my guess is that we would have all heard Clinton
campaigning in Ebonics.  Without an understanding of Ebonics, or a
translator, we might not have been able to understand him.  Think of what we
would have missed!  And that's not all.  Suppose that while stopped at a
traffic light, an Ebonics speaker approaches your car to ask to borrow it.
He says something on the order of "gheeowtdakamuthafucka!".  You respond
with "say what?".  Bingo, what we got here is a failure to communicate.  The
next thing you know, you're shouting at each other.  Pretty soon, shots are
fired and a crowd gathers around your car.  The car begins to rock, glass
begins to break.  You are arrested for leaving the scene of an accident and
for violating the civil rights of the Ebonics speaker.  All because you
didn't take the time to understand his language.  Having an unabridged
Ebonics/English Dictionary available on the net could help to save untold
numbers of people from having such an experience.

I hope the site will be up in a week or so, in the meantime, you may
communicate via the list or directly to me at <chuck@ebonic.org>.  Remember,
we be needin yo hep.





