From: Wink Junior <winkjr@teleport.com>
Date: Mon, 19 Feb 1996 12:02:38 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Internet Privacy Guaranteed ad (POTP Jr.)
Message-ID: <199602190320.TAA15431@julie.teleport.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text


This culled from comp.security.firewalls.  I've edited out the blathering ad
copy and just left the "technical details".  Sounds like POTP Jr. to me; I'm
certainly not interested in the "buy our company" schtick.	-- Wink

         Wichita Falls, Texas
         February 16, 1996
         For immediate Release:
         Internet.Privacy.Guaranteed

	 [Long blathering sales prose elided.]

            If You Break our System, You've Bought our Company!

         Internet.Privacy.Guaranteed, IPG, today announced a new
         product line that guarantees privacy for 2, or privacy
         networks of 20,000 or more people on Internet. We back up our
         Guarantee with the Corporate motto, 'If You Break our System,
         You Have Bought our Company.'

         IPG Guarantees Absolute Privacy on Internet. Using the
         trademark CRE transform, the IPG PCX Nvelopes system
         translates any intelligible digitized information into
         utterly random gibberish. Only one other user, or more in
         certain instances where there is a need to know,  will have
         the Nvelopener required to transform the random gibberish
         back into intelligible digitized information. CRE Transforms,
         trademark IPG, are the only acknowledged unbreakable method
         of so transforming digitized information. There are no
         passwords, encryption keys, or anything like that to conjure
         up, remember, and perhaps forget. PCX Nvelopes usage is
         automatic, similar to PKZIP and PKUNZIP.   Easy to install,
         use, add to, and administer.

                        It is Unbreakable

         If an individual, or any group of individuals, break the IPG
         Privacy System, IPG will sell them the company for $1.00, and
         even give them the dollar to buy it with. If you think you
         can, just try and you find out that it is impossible. There
         may be rumors that someone has broken the system, but that is
         not possible, it will never happen.

                     Don't Waste your time !

         How dare IPG have the unmitigated gall? When you are certain,
         then you are certain, and IPG is certain! Others dare not
         make such a brazen boast because they cannot possibly back it
         up, but IPG most certainly can.  Every informed expert of the
         technology will confirm, without reservation, that the IPG
         system is not breakable, as many already have!  There, we
         have thrown down that gauntlet, dare you pick it up?

                               CRE Transforms

         The system uses CRE transforms, metaphorically called
         Nvelopes, to translate any meaningful digitized information
         into absolutely random gibberish.  In order to convert that
         random gibberish back into intelligible usable form, a
         Nvelopener is required, and only the rightful recipient(s)
         has the required Nvelopener.

                          Nvelopes and Nvelopeners

         Every Nvelope and Nvelopener pair is absolutely and totally
         unique - they bear no resemblance whatsoever to any other
         Nvelope - Nvelopener pair in existence, anywhere ay anytime.
         Every time a user wants to transmit information to another
         user, they utilize a new unique Nvelope.

                      No Passwords or Keys or the Like

         As an added bonus, there are NO MESSY, INTRUSIVE PASSWORDS or
         ENCRYPTION KEYS to conjure up, remember, fool around with,
         and perhaps forget. None of that sort of thing to bother with
         at all. Nothing to get in your way of using the system.

           Transforms Internet from Least Private to Most Private

         The System, called PCX Nvelopes, for Private Communications
         eXchange, transforms Internet from being the least private,
         utterly without any privacy at all, system for conducting
         communications, into the most private system possible, an
         elegant fast system that unequivocally insures privacy.

                         Privacy Network

         PCX Nvelopes serves 2 individuals who want to communicate
         with each other in private, as it serves equally well a
         corporate organization, or any other organization, privacy
         network, of 9 or 90,000 or more people, who want to keep
         customer, trade secret, strategy and plans, financial, and
         other confidential information privy to those with the need
         to know. For both in house and external usage.

                   Guaranteed Easy to Install, Use and Upgrade

         Potential users beset by a paranoia that the PCX Nvelopes
         system must be complex, difficult to configure, laborious to
         install, administratively burdensome, arduous to upgrade and
         add users, are in for a computer cultural shock.  As you will
         find, PCX is the exact antithesis of all of those things.  It
         is so simple to install, use, upgrade and add users to, that
         it will completely blow your mind away. There is nothing to
         do, installation and adding users are totally load and go
         operations - if you can operate a computer, you can install
         and use PCX Nvelopes within minutes, it is absolutely duck
         soup to any computer literate, even marginal ones.

                               Prices

         Prices are $19.96, including shipping and handling,
         for a full blown 12 user Demonstration system, unconditional
         moneyback guarantee and may be applied to your first order -
         the Demo system can be used by 2 people, or all the way up to
         12 users in a privacy network. For $39.95, two users can set
         up a two user privacy system with 500 Nvelopes.  A fully
         operational integrated multi-user system costs approximately
         $140.00 per user, ready to load and go, with thousands, or
         millions of Nvelopes and Nvelopeners. IPG also offers full
         turnkey leases at $15.00 per user, per network, per
         month, which includes all software, upgrades, administration,
         and unlimited Nvelopes and Nvelopeners.

         As a reference to its unbreakability, we refer you to an
         article by Paul Leyland on Internet at:

             http://dcs.ex.ac.uk/~aba/otp.html

         For more information visit our Web Site at:

             http://www.netprivacy.com/ipg

         or E-Mail at ipgsales@cyberstation.net,

         or by phone at 817-691-1081


                  Trademarks & Copyrights

         Nvelopes, Nvelopeners, CPX and CRE Transforms are trademarks
         of Internet.Privacy.Guaranteed, IPG.   Copyrighted 1995,1996
         by: Internet.Privacy.Guaranteed.  All rights reserved.




