From: hoz@univel.telescan.com (rick hoselton)
Date: Mon, 29 Apr 1996 04:55:06 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Book: The President's Eyes Only
Message-ID: <199604281408.HAA09274@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


I just finished reading "For the President's Eyes Only", 
a book by Christopher Andrew.  It describes the uses 
that US presidents have made of intelligence and 
intelligence organizations, from George Washington to 
George Bush.  

What caught my eye first was a quotation by David Kahn 
that says: "This is the most important book ever 
written about American intelligence."

The cypherpunks relevance (Besides the David Kahn quote) is 
the frequent mention of NSA decrypts and SIGINT.  The frequency 
that nations and individuals have used (and apparently continue 
to use) breakable encryption is incredible.  The intelligence 
that has been derived by breaking them is worth a great deal, 
in dollars and maybe lives.  This book has made me understand a 
bit, why a government might try to limit strong cryptography.  

I suppose I tended to look upon ITAR restrictions on cryptography 
as a sign of a power-hungry, self-agrandizing, government that has 
lost track of the fact that its legitimacy depends on protecting 
the blessings of liberty for its citizens.  That's partly true, 
but there's more to it than that.  

After reading "For the President's Eyes Only", I can understand that 
many in government believe that they are protecting the public by 
outlawing cryptography.  After careful reconsideration, I still 
believe in strong free crypto, but it made me think very hard.
I think that some on this list and in sci.crypt should be ashamed of 
their ad hominem attacks in an area where reasonable people disagree. 

The crypto-game is being played "for keeps".  Someday, all crypto 
may be too strong to break, but for right now, many "bad guys" 
(and whatever your philosophy, I bet you can find some) use weak 
crypto, and this allows the US Govt. to know more about what goes 
on in the world.  As long as Uncle Sam keeps his finger on a nuclear 
trigger, I can see a strong case that knowing what he's doing and 
not getting too surprised are (mostly) good things.

There will be a price to pay when everyone uses strong crypto.  
There will be great benefits derived, as well.  It will be very 
expensive, but worth it.  If we want to make it happen sooner, 
we should understand (and respect) our opponents in this debate.

 
Rick F. Hoselton  (who doesn't claim to present opinions for others)





