From: nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)
Date: Thu, 18 Apr 1996 17:14:15 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: GNU Version 0.01 (alpha) of KiddieFind is now available
Message-ID: <199604180610.IAA27184@utopia.hacktic.nl>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


I am going ahead and releasing an alpha version of KiddieFind a free
Unix implementation of LolitaWatch.  Everything is under the GPL, so
the source code is free, hack on it all you want ...

KiddieFind is an enhanced free version of Nubility Inc.'s LolitaWatch
for Unix.  It works by locating network packets that have the US
federally mandated Under18 bit set, and then uses publicly accessible
databases to map them into a street address and phonenumber.

The networked version works as follows, using the provided plug in
module (a version is provided in 0.01 for AOL, I'm working on a
CompuServe version and will have it ready in a week or so) to connect
to a major online service.  Once connected it goes into the equivalent
of promiscuous mode and scans all traffic for the age bit, and
forwards the information back to your system.

After collecting all this information, it scans a number of publicly
accessible databases to turn the information into a street address.
The geographical location can be approximated by running a traceroute
on the IP address of the originating packet and works backwards until
a host with reliable geographic data can be located.  KiddieFind only
requires state-wide granularity, and this only to narrow the later
phonebook search.

Once a geographic location has been determined, it's not likely that
the child has her own phone.  Therefore the parents must be found.  A
search is done through the any number of the available on-line
telephone books.  By this stage KiddieFind should have a manageable
number of candidate numbers.  If real names are being used, than it's
easy to isolate the correct phone number.  Hopefully the Denning
geographic information will be mandated soon, thus eliminating nearly
all sources of error isolating the correct neighborhood.

If there are still too many candiate numbers a number of other mostly
automated searches can be done.  The parents' home web pages can be
searched for personal information, etc.

Once you have the system tuned, all you merely have to do to locate a
street address and phone number for any number of children is just
login and poke around a bit.  Everything else is done in the
background.  You don't even have to think about it.

I've obtained the address and phone numbers of over 5,000 children so
far, but I expect this will become easier after all the kinks in the
system are worked out.

GNU archives are located throughout the world, pick the one closest to
you for downloading.




