From: tcmay@got.net (Timothy C. May)
Date: Sat, 3 Aug 1996 06:37:46 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Bombs & bomb threats in LA
Message-ID: <ae27a13f03021004323f@[205.199.118.202]>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


At 9:33 AM 8/2/96, Conrad Walton wrote:

>i'm not exactly sure what an acid bomb is, but according to my book, The
>Anarchist Cookbook, that I bought in 1972 (was the internet around back
>then?), there is a compound called "picric acid" that is "more powerful
>than TNT, but has some disadvantages".

The ARPANET (or ARPANet, or Arpanet...) was around then. (I had an account
on it, circa 1973...not very useful for me.)

I also got my copy of "The Anarchist Cookbook" back around then. It was in
the news locally when the Santa Barbara County Sheriff's office attempted
to have it removed from the local bookstores....this removed it all right,
as the stacks of copies sold out as quickly as they could be received and
unpacked.

(As others have noted over the years, much of the advice is probably bogus
and even dangerous. Not being an explosives dabbler, I wouldn't know.)

If Feinswine gets her ban on bomb-making information passed, and this is
upheld by the courts (doubtful), the sites will be swamped with information
queries, and fooling around with bombs will become more popular amongst the
teenage set that has not expressed much interest in such things the past
couple of decades.

The more things change, the more they remain the same.

--Tim May, an I-bomb-throwing crypto anarchist

Buy a section of metal water pipe 1/2 by 6 inches long, threaded on both
ends.  Buy two metal caps to fit.  These are standard items in hardware
stores.  Drill a 1/16th hole in the center of the pipe. This is easy with a
good drill bit. Hanson is a good brand to use.  Screw a metal cap tightly
on one end. Fill the pipe to within 1/2 inch of the top with black powder.
Do not pack
the powder. Don't even tap the bottom of the pipe to make it settle.  You want
the powder loose.  For maximum explosive effect, you need dry, fine powder
sitting loose in a very rigid container.






