From: John Young <jya@pipeline.com>
Date: Sat, 13 Jan 1996 01:31:56 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: SPO_oks
Message-ID: <199601121607.LAA09897@pipe6.nyc.pipeline.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


   1-12-96. WashP:

   "Agencies Debate Value of Being Out in the Cold. Spies
   Under 'Nonofficial Cover' Are Among Most Sensitive
   Operations."

      Today, as the roles and missions of American spying are
      being reviewed, one of the most sensitive debates in the
      U.S. intelligence community is whether to step up the
      overseas use of NOCs, not only by the CIA but also by
      the Pentagon's Defense Humint Service and the FBI, both
      of which also can work abroad under cover.

      Because they operate alone and outside embassies, NOCs
      need their own secure communications and a safe way to
      keep their highly classified files.


   1-11-96. WashP:

   "Israeli Media Break Censorship Rules to Name New Security
   Service Head."

      The man who will take the reins of Israel's Shin Bet
      security service, Rear Adm. Ami Ayalon, was named today
      in Israeli news accounts for the first time in the
      history of the secretive organization. Israeli media
      have yet to name Ayalon's predecessor, Karmi Gilon, who
      was still referred to today as "Kaf."


   1-11-96. FinTim:

   "Yeltsin's New Spy Master to Play by the Rules."

      Mr Trubnikov will be the first spymaster to work under
      new legislation which says the intelligence services
      must  use "a combination of open and secret methods and
      tactics and in accordance with the principle of legality
      and respect for human rights and freedoms". Separately,
      Mr Yeltsin signed a decree limiting phone taps and the
      unauthorised collection of information on firms and
      individuals. But Tass, which reported the decree, gave
      no details of how it would work.


   SPO_oks






