From: barrensj@gate.net
Date: Thu, 31 Oct 1996 01:04:41 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Abducted by Aliens??
In-Reply-To: <v01510100ae92afccffa1@[128.183.238.71]>
Message-ID: <N.102896.221957.52@stpfl1-52.gate.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


You Little Cutie, You --

All right already!  What about choice Z?  I waited so long to respond to the 
joke (which I went around telling everyone) I got embarrassed.  The longer I 
waited, the more stuff happened so that I just couldn't catch up and tell all.  
What about that one????

Actually nothing is happening (oh, except for St. Pete burning last Thursday 
night) but we manage to stay frenetically busy. Teaching dance -- the kids -- 
doing my mother/wife/housewife/daughter/friend/neighbor duties.

I'm very, very sorry to hear about your mother's illness.  My friend/neighbor 
just told me she's been diagnosed with depression and is having a difficult 
time overcoming the stigma.  There's a pile of ignorance out there.  I'm sure 
you're aware that chronic illness and injury can take down whole families.  
How's your dad holding up?  It sounds selfish, but I hope you're taking care of 
yourself.  It's particularly difficult when you live so nearby except that when 
something is wrong and you're not there it's somehow worse.

Also, too bad about your heavy work load. On the other hand, I'm glad you still 
have your job.  I was also particularly happy to hear that The Equine is 
feeling frisky again.

This business about JP is so weird.  I wish he were normal and you two could be 
friends. But it just seems like. . . like . .. ?????  I mean, what would it 
hurt 'im?  It's just BIZARRE!  And I absolutely think it's NOT you!  I mean, 
aren't we all civilized adults here?

You'll be glad to know that we finally got Hannah a pet:  Mexican jumping 
beans.  She's named them Rosie, Rosie and Rosie.  (You think we're REAL mean, 
huh?)  Well, they ARE low maintenance!

I hope you got the cc: of the message I sent Kika over the weekend.  It had a 
short update of sorts on our condition which is, "Can't complain."

So . . . I DO still love you.  You are still a good friend for putting up with 
me.

Love,

Ruth





