From: Johnathan Corgan <jcorgan@aeinet.com>
Date: Fri, 26 Jan 1996 14:59:26 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: "This post is G-Rated"
In-Reply-To: <Pine.SOL.3.91.960125154936.1505F-100000@chivalry>
Message-ID: <Pine.LNX.3.91.960125192736.177A-100000@comet.aeinet.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



On Thu, 25 Jan 1996, Simon Spero wrote:

> THere are several schemes being put about that work along those lines,
> with message formats being standardised, but not the actual values - you
> should then pick your favourite rating agency, and they determine what is
> rated and how.  This system creates a new market for rating agencies, and
> it also helps parents to determine more precisely what *they* think is fit
> for their children. 

This would allow to emerge a free market 'ecology' of ratings agencies, 
similar to the system that has emerged in the PC technology 
market for product reviews.  

Presently, I obtain a great deal of market exposure by promoting my 
product (I'm a marketing geek at a Silicon Valley networking vendor) in  
competitive reviews done by both specialist companies (e.g., LANQuest Labs) 
and print magazines (PC World,  Communications Week, etc.)

Everyone has their own opinions about the accuracy, testing methodology, 
review philosophy, and veracity of these 'ratings agencies', and there is a 
large market segment that does buy product on little more than what they read 
in these trade rags.

The analogy with Web pages is fairly direct.  As a Web content provider, 
I would be incentivized to have my pages reviewed by those agencies whom 
I felt attracted the right target audience for my content, and whose 
reputation in that audience was good.

As a Web surfer, or parent, or whomever, I could choose (or not) to 
consult with a ratings agency whose criteria and reputation I trust.

As a ratings agency, my reputation would be based on how closely I follow 
the criteria I publish for my rating service.

I can forsee the development of competing 'ratings servers', which 
contain a database of reviewed URL's.  My browser would query one with a 
URL (for a small fee) prior to retrieving the actual page.

With an evolved form of e-cash, this could become a profitable 
business.  Ratings aren't necessarily strictly value judgements; they can 
act as a classification system as well. 

Of course, this is an entirely free market, voluntary, no coercion 
involved, non-legislated solution, so I wouldn't expect it to fly in today's 
political climate.

--
Johnathan M. Corgan
jcorgan@aeinet.com
http://www.aeinet.com/jcorgan.htm








