From: sameer <sameer@c2.net>
Date: Mon, 19 Aug 1996 09:54:46 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: COMMUNITY CONNEXION ANNOUNCES STRONGHOLD VERSION 1.3
Message-ID: <199608182350.QAA24313@atropos.c2.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


For Immediate Release - August 19, 1996
Contact: Sameer Parekh 510-986-8770

	       COMMUNITY CONNEXION ANNOUNCES STRONGHOLD
			     VERSION 1.3

Oakland, CA - Community ConneXion, Inc., the leader in uncompromising
security for the Internet, today announced the version 1.3 release of
Stronghold, the commercial version of Apache-SSL. Stronghold is based
on the popular Apache server, the most popular webserver on the
Internet, according to the Netcraft server survey at
http://www.netcraft.com/survey/.

Stronghold 1.3 is a significant improvement from the Stronghold 1.2
product. The latest version is based on Apache 1.1.1, which supports
features such as Keep-Alive, server information modules, a proxy
server, an easier to use API, more flexibility in authentication, and
greater configurability.

"We're happy to have a final release version of 1.3 available," said
Sameer Parekh, President of Community ConneXion. "Because of our close
involvement with the Apache Group, we can quickly track new Apache
releases. We expect to have an Apache 1.2-based server available soon
after the Apache 1.2 release."  Stronghold 1.3 is the result of an
extensive Internet-wide beta test, which started soon after the full
release of Apache 1.1.1.

Apache 1.1.1 includes features such as the status module, which gives
the server administrator the ability to monitor in real time the
server's activity. An information module is also available which gives
administrators easy access to a list of which modules have been
installed on their server, as well as their configuration directives.
The latest version includes modules which support database access,
including mSQL and Postgres95.

Apache 1.1.1 has much more flexible configuration with regards to
virtual hosts and multiple IP addresses. This feature allows such
innovations as the ability within Stronghold 1.3 to serve both SSL and
nonSSL documents from the same server instance.

The latest version of Stronghold supports "Session ID Caching," which
allows for dramatic performance improvements. Session caching allows
servers to process connections much faster because the processor
intensive calculations happen less often. Limited performance tests
have shown speed improvements of eight hundred percent. "With Session
ID Caching, the SSL protocol is not noticably slower than not using
the encryption protocol. There is no excuse not to encrypt
everything," said Parekh.

Community ConneXion is now shipping binaries for Sparc Solaris 2.5,
x86 Solaris 2.5, Sparc SunOS 4.1.3_U1, FreeBSD 2.1, BSDI 1.1, AIX
3.2.5, IRIX 5.3, HP/UX, OSF/1, Ultrix, BSDI 2.0, and Linux (ELF &
a.out). More platforms will be available soon, and even more may be
supported on request.  Stronghold may be ordered and downloaded at
http://www.us.apache-ssl.com/. Existing commercial licensees may
download the latest version free of charge.

Portions developed by the Apache Group, taken with permission from the
Apache Server http://www.apache.org/.  This product includes software
developed by Ben Laurie for use in the Apache-SSL HTTP server project.
This product includes software developed by Eric Young
(eay@mincom.oz.au).




