From: jya@pipeline.com (John Young)
Date: Sat, 5 Oct 1996 08:42:42 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: KRF_eat
Message-ID: <199610041735.RAA19781@pipe1.ny2.usa.pipeline.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


   A roundup of press reports on GAK: 
 
   "IBM, other firms, in data encryption alliance" 
 
      The consortium was initiated by IBM. "Export controls 
      are a fact of life," said Jim Bidzos. 
 
   "U.S. To Loosen Computer Code Restrictions" 
 
      "It's wrongheaded, and it's going backward," Peter 
      Harter, at Netscape, said. 
 
   "U.S. Export of High-Tech Devices Planned" 
 
      CDT's Danny Weitzner said U.S. companies' and 
      citizens' encrypted communications sent over the 
      Internet could be vulnerable to "improper foreign 
      government access." 
 
      The administration doesn't want that to happen and is 
      working with major trading partners and other 
      countries to adopt plans that are consistent with the 
      U.S. plan and to expedite electronic key recovery by 
      law enforcement, the CIA's Deutch said. 
 
   "IT Execs, Lawmakers Reactions Mixed on Encryption Plan" 
 
      Rick Cardona, a security technology engineer at 
      security software maker TradeWave Corp., said the law 
      doesn't go far enough. "I think this is part of a 
      trend. It's only a matter of time before the 
      government will allow exports of 128-bit key 
      software." 
 
   "NCR Corp. Joins Alliance To Develop Exportable, 
   Worldwide Strong Encryption " 
 
      "We also look forward to the rapid movement of the 
      work of the alliance into an established standards- 
      based consortium body." 
 
   "TradeWave meets new government data encryption 
   requirements" 
 
      Although other Internet software security companies 
      have announced their intention to support this new 
      key-recovery requirement, no other Internet Web 
      security software company currently offers this 
      service to its customers besides TradeWave. 
      TradeWave's current customers, which include over 350 
      electric power companies representing over 70% of the 
      electric power industry, are using the TradeVPI 
      software and services which include this key recovery 
      feature. 
 
   ----- 
 
   http://jya.com/krfeat.txt  (22 kb for 6) 
 
   ftp://jya.com/pub/incoming/krfeat.txt 
 
   KRF_eat 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




