From: Duncan Frissell <frissell@panix.com>
Date: Wed, 27 Mar 1996 10:31:14 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Weapons & Hope
Message-ID: <2.2.32.19960326164226.00681648@panix.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


With all of the folderol about the repeal of the Assault Rifle non Ban and
the risks to the polity from Assault Encryption, it is important to note
that this is Much Ado About Nothing.

If these gals are worried about a few AK's, what's going to become of their
peace of mind when confronted with nanotechnology.

It is not technologically feasibly to develop a pile of advanced
technologies that do not contain weapons or defenses of some kind.
Technology gives one the power to do things.  The power to "do things" is a
superset of the power to attack or defend (the power of weaponry).  A weapon
is basically an instrument for projecting force or (in the case of defenses)
blocking that projection.  As technology advances, more and more powerful
instrumentalities are placed in individual hands.

This is particularly the case with modern machines and markets.  Whereas
past practice involved mass production of identical products from very
specialized production machinery, the current trend is moving towards custom
products produced by "general" machines.  While it might be barely possible
in the mass production age to control weapons by blocking the flow of these
specific products (a Streetsweeper, say) into the marketplace, it will
clearly not be possible  in the age of custom production.  General machines
will be available to produce specialized products (often under the direct
control of the customer, himself).  Some of this custom production will be
weapons.

DCF

"Gee, I never knew Chuck Schumer was brave enough to attack another military
force armed only with an 'Assault Handgun.'  He must be because if he ain't
then it ain't (an assault handgun, that is) because no one else would be
that crazy." 





