From: ichudov@algebra.com (Igor Chudov @ home)
Date: Mon, 25 Nov 1996 23:39:58 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Another Nutty Idea about SPAM
Message-ID: <199611260706.BAA07407@algebra>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text


Steven Garman wrote:
> I have had yet another twisted idea.  I would be interested in your thoughts.
> 
> Once method of combatting the spammers is to use disinformation.  For example
> we use new addresses for their "remove" lists to check on their honesty.
> 
> What about attacking the lists themselves with false data?  Say you run a site.
> You can make and delete accounts as you please.  So, make a whole bunch of
> new accounts, and submit them by various means to places that will probably 
> use them in bulk e-mail lists.  Then, delete the accounts.  Viola, the lists
> have some worthless addresses.

Another nutty idea: to create a database of people who do NOT want to
receive unsolicited advertisements, and make it widely available.

The obvious problem is that some very uncsrupulous spammers would want
to grab this database and use it as a source of email addresses. 

This problem has a solution, however: instead of distributing people's
email addresses, distribute MD5 checksums of their addresses. For 
example, an entry for ichudov@algebra.com would be 

	b51175dae78f25427351d5e3ff43de30

There is no way to guess the original text from an MD5 checksum.

Spammers should be advised to exclude all addresses with MD5 checksums from
that database from the recipient list, and include instructions on how
to get one added to the database into their spams.

Database maintainers could even provide a email filter-bot that would
accept recipient lists by email and send back the same lists, but
WITHOUT addresses that wish not to receive spam. This way stupid
low-tech spammers (who make up the majority) will be able to process
their email lists quickly and easily.

This database may be maintained centrally. Users may be able to sign up
for inclusion into that database by email or by filling out a Web-based 
form. Identity verifications may be done by using cookie protocol.

	- Igor.





