From: Lucky Green <shamrock@netcom.com>
Date: Sat, 28 Sep 1996 03:48:04 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: "Soul Catcher" Computer Chip (fwd)
Message-ID: <Pine.3.89.9609270951.A23028-0100000@netcom14>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain




What's next? Thought escrow?

--Lucky

---- Forwarded Message from other list ------
Figured you might be interested in this.  I copied it from Nexus 
Oct/Nov 1996.

QUOTE

SOUL CATCHER IMPLANTS

British scientists are developing a concept for a computer chip 
which, when implanted into the skull behind the eye, will be able to
record a person's every life time thought ands sensation.

"This is the end of death," said Dr. Chris Winter of British 
Telecom's artificial-life team.  He predicts that within thirty years
it will be possible to relive other people's lives by playing back
their experiences on a computer.  "By combining this information with
a record of a person's genes, we could recreate a person physically,
emotionally and spiritually."

Dr Winter and his team of scientists at BT's Martlesham Heath 
Laboratories, near Ipswich, call the chip "the Soul Catcher."

British telecom would not divulge how much money it is investing in
the project, but Dr. Winter said it was taking "Soul Catcher 2025"
very seriously.  He confessed there were profound ethical
considerations, butr emphasised that BT was embarking on this line of
research so it could keep at the forefront of communications
technology.

Dr. Winter said "an implanted chip would be like an aircraft's black
box, and would enhance communications beyond current concepts.  "For
example, police would be able to use it to relive an attack, rape or
murder from the victims viewpoint, to help catch the criminal...  I
could even play back the smells, sounds and sighs of my holidays to
friends.

Other more frightening applications include downloading an older
person's experiences into a newborn baby by transplanting the chip.

Sources: The Daily Telegraph, the Daily Mail, 18 July 1996

UNQUOTE




