From: sameer <sameer@c2.net>
Date: Thu, 18 Jul 1996 02:38:06 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: COMMUNITY CONNEXION ANNOUNCES STRONGHOLD VERSION 1.2
Message-ID: <199607161757.KAA02868@atropos.c2.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


For Immediate Release - July 16, 1996
Contact: Sameer Parekh 510-986-8770

	       COMMUNITY CONNEXION ANNOUNCES STRONGHOLD
			     VERSION 1.2

Oakland, CA - Community ConneXion, Inc., the leader in uncompromising
security for the World Wide Web, today announced the release of its
newest version of Stronghold: Apache-SSL for the US. Stronghold is a
webserver based on the popular Apache server, which has the highest
marketshare of all webservers on the Internet according to the
Netcraft server survey at http://www.netcraft.com/survey/.
Stronghold's marketshare has more than doubled every month since its
release in January of this year.

"[The competition]'s secure servers just didn't work the way we wanted
them to; the interface was clunky and required firewall adjustments to
run, the access control didn't work well for us, and it was just too
black-boxey for us," commented Dan Kearns, of the Motorola ISG
Internet Business Group. "We like the lean/mean-ness of Apache in
general, and the actual useful development that goes on. We look
forward to generating client certificates for our channel partners
using the bundled internal certificate authority tools."

"We have been working with Community ConneXion for over a year to
enable our Digital IDs in their Stronghold server products," said Greg
Smirin, Product Line Manager at VeriSign, Inc. "We look forward to
using their new version of Stronghold to demonstrate client
certification on our own website." VeriSign is the leading provider of
digital authentication services and products for electronic commerce
and other forms of secure communications.

"Stronghold is the first widely used web server that can authenticate
clients on the basis of their digital certificates," said Dr. Andrew
Csinger, President of Xcert Software, Inc.  "Stronghold is a natural
server platform for Xcert's Sentry suite of security enhancement
products.  The combination of Stronghold's uncompromising security
profile and Xcert's flexible certificate management and secure
database technology represents great value and convenience for
Internet users."

Xcert and C2 have entered into a co-marketing agreement to provide
easy access to the Stronghold/Sentry bundle.  The Stronghold/Sentry
combination puts organizations of any size in control of their own
security, allowing them to cost-effectively implement secure Intranets
based on public key certificates.

Xcert Software, Inc. is the premier provider of security enhancement
software for safe and secure commercial Internet applications.
Xcert's Sentry product line is the first cross-platform,
server-independent public key infrastructure implementation.  A live
demonstration using the Stronghold webserver has been available on the
company's website since April 1996 (http://www.xcert.com).

Because it is based on Apache, Stronghold can be used with the
innummerable third party CGI and Apache API applications which have
been developed for Apache, including perl & python integration,
database connectivity, and Kerberos support. "Direct support within
the server for scripting languages can produce an excellent
performance improvement over standard CGI methods," said Sameer
Parekh, President of Community ConneXion, Inc.

Community ConneXion ships binaries for Sparc Solaris 2.5, x86 Solaris
2.5, Sparc SunOS 4.1.3_U1, DG/UX, FreeBSD 2.1, BSDI 1.1, AIX 3.2.5,
IRIX 5.3, HP/UX (9 & 10), OSF/1, UnixWare, Ultrix, BSDI 2.0, and Linux
(ELF & a.out). Additional platforms may be supported on request.
Stronghold may be ordered and downloaded at http://www.us.apache-ssl.com/.

Portions developed by the Apache Group, taken with permission from the
Apache Server http://www.apache.org/.  This product includes software
developed by Ben Laurie for use in the Apache-SSL HTTP server project.
This product includes software developed by Eric Young
(eay@mincom.oz.au).




