From: reagle@rpcp.mit.edu (Joseph M. Reagle Jr.)
Date: Fri, 9 Aug 1996 01:03:43 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: ****CyberWatch Security With Face Recognition 08/07/96
Message-ID: <9608081407.AA01011@rpcp.mit.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



  	  				 
WELLESLEY, MASSACHUSETTS, U.S.A., 1996 AUG 7 (NB) -- By Bob Woods.  
A person's face may become much more valuable than providing good 
looks to everyone who sees him or her. That's because Miros Inc. 
has developed a new software product that uses face recognition 
to access secured areas on a network. 

Miros' "TrueFace CyberWatch" is described as the first product of its  
kind that controls access to secured data by using facial lines. The 
technology is based on neural networks technology invented by Miros 
President Michael Kuperstein and the company's Dr. James Kottas, 
and developed at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). 

Variability of people's faces is overcome in determining whether an  
actual face is the same or different than a face image that was 
previously stored. 

TrueFace CyberWatch uses Miros' software and a small video camera on  
top of the computer monitor to verify computer users when they 
try to access protected data. TrueFace "snaps" a picture of the current 
computer operator and compares it to images in a database of authorized 
users. Continued spot checks are taken to ensure the same user is 
at the computer. 

Some of the information that can be protected includes medical,  
financial, criminal, or military records, officials said. The system 
requires no training, is fast to use, and cannot be fooled by holding 
up a photo of a person. 

This technology has been used in other situations, including the  
securing of buildings or special areas, officials said. 

TrueFace CyberWatch is compatible with PC client/server standards and  
can be used alone or with other security programs, officials said. 

The client runs on Windows 95 and Windows NT operating systems, and  
costs $199. A bundle package, which includes a Connectix camera and 
the software, is priced at $298. Both products will be shipping 
within the next two months, officials said. 

(19960807/Press Contact: Christine Sheroff, Sheroff & Associates,  
508-435-3306) 
  	   	




