From: Bruce Baugh <bruce@aracnet.com>
Date: Tue, 20 Feb 1996 15:39:25 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Remailers not heard from; info?
Message-ID: <2.2.32.19960220054834.006cc5d4@mail.aracnet.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


>Further, in an earlier message Bruce Baugh asked why some remailers did not
>more promptly remail their messages. 

No, Tim, I didn't. I asked why I was noticing a secular slowdown _relative
to last month_ when I did the same thing I'm doing now. Then I asked the
same question for the last couple of days relative to the end of the last week.

I understand why there are delays. And how to set latency. And a number of
other things. This is none of those.

I'll take the heat for what I do write. I'm not claiming to be an expert, I
do make mistakes, I do get confused, when it's appropriate I'll take a few
"RTFMs" (as with cutmarks). In return, though, I don't take the heat for
what I don't write.

I will also point out that I asked at least a few of these questions when I
posted my January results. Particularly, I'm curious to get a better handle
on what elements of the process I'm using lead to such different time
results from, say, Raph's pinging chart. Local site? The scummy service
through which too much Portland traffic has to pass? Other factors? Dunno.
Met with deafening silence last month, apart from some thank-yous on the
side from folks who appreciated having things already formatted with times
rather than needing the extra step of reading the codes.

[Side note: I see myself as offering a supplement to services like Raph's.
Obviously I can't compete in timeliness or comprehensiveness of coverage. On
the other hand, I do think my usage reflects much more closely what happens
when people actually send traffic through remailers, and I go for maximum
clarity of presentation. In other words, I'm building on others' work. No
inflating of ego is intended or implied; some settling of arches may have
occurred during shipping.]

So I'm asking again. I've had some helpful notes on the side from remailer
operators, to whom my thanks. I'd like to learn more.

-- 
Bruce Baugh
bruce@aracnet.com
http://www.aracnet.com/~bruce





