From: rick hoselton <hoz@univel.telescan.com>
Date: Wed, 17 Apr 1996 06:54:48 +0800
To: perry@piermont.com
Subject: Re: why compression doesn't perfectly even out entropy
Message-ID: <199604161843.LAA19508@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


At 10:07 AM 4/16/96 -0400, Perry E. Metzger wrote:

>...Usually, random
>sequences are non-compressable, but it is possible (though very
>improbable) for Hamlet to appear out of a random number generator,
>and it is of course quite compressable...

But even if it came from a completely random source, it would 
still make a bad one-time pad.  When people say "compressable" 
or "algorithmic complexity" or "random", a context is always implied.  

In the context of "fair coin flips" the text of Hamlet is NOT compressible.
Because no string is more likely than any other.  Any algorithm that could 
compress that string, will, on the average INCREASE the length of 
"fair coin flip" strings it tries to compress.

Under the context of "pads that might be used for cryptographic purposes" the 
text of Hamlet is quite compressible.  An attacker is much more likely to 
test for such a stream than one that appears more random.  So, even if you 
got "Hamlet" from a perfectly random source, you should reject it for crypto 
purposes.

There is an exception to this rule.  If you are so revered as a cryptographer 
that no analyst would believe that you would deliberately choose a
non-random pad, 
then it would be safe to use Hamlet if it appeared in a random source.

It is amazing that one's reputation can affect the randomness of the bitstrings 
one uses.  

PS:
I have written a compressor that can compress ANY string to the single byte "X".
There are 2**n different decompressor programs, where n is the bit size of the 
original file.  All you have to do is specify the number of the correct 
decompressor program, and you have the original file.  Note that no computer 
is required for either the compressor or the decompressor.  (patent pending)











