From: nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)
Date: Tue, 11 Jun 1996 20:13:30 +0800
To: Cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: A guide to self control (Was funny underwear)
Message-ID: <199606110758.JAA15624@basement.replay.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


  A Guide to Self-Control
 
  Subject: Steps in Overcoming Masterbation
 
 Excerpt from a Mormon missionary guide, circa 1970: Steps in
 Overcoming Masterbation, Mark E. Petersen

   1. Never touch the intimate parts of your body except during normal
       toilet processes.

   2. If you are associated with other persons having this same
      problem, YOU MUST BREAK OFF THEIR FRIENDSHIP. Never associate
      with other people having the same weakness. Don't suppose that
      two of you will quit together, you never will. You must get away
      from people of that kind. Just to be in their presence will keep
      your problem foremost in your mind. The problem must be taken OUT
      OF YOUR MIND for that is where it really exists. Your mind must
      be on other and more wholesome things.

   3. When in bed, if that is where you have your problem for the most
      part, dress yourself for the night so securely that you cannot
      easily touch your vital parts, and so that it would be difficult
      and time consuming for you to remove those clothes. By the time
      you started to remove protective clothing you would have
      sufficiently controlled your thinking that the temptation would
      leave you.

   4. If the temptation seems overpowering while you are in bed, GET
      OUT OF BED AND GO INTO THE KITCHEN AND FIX YOURSELF A SNACK, 
      even  if it is in the middle of the night, and even if you are not
      hungry, and despite your fears of gaining weight. The purpose
      behind this suggestion is that you GET YOUR MIND ON SOMETHING
      ELSE. You are the subject of your thoughts, so to speak.

   5. Never read pornographic material. Never read about your problem.
      Keep it out of mind. Remember -- "First a thought, then an act."
      The thought pattern must be changed. You must not allow this
      problem to remain in your mind. When you accomplish that, you
      soon will be free of the act.

   6. Pray. But when you pray, don't pray about this problem, for that
      will tend to keep [it] in your mind more than ever. Pray for
      faith, pray for understanding of the Scriptures, pray for the
      Missionaries, the General Authorities, your friends, your
      families, BUT KEEP THE PROBLEM OUT OF YOUR MIND BY NOT 
      MENTIONING  IT EVER -- NOT IN CONVERSATION WITH OTHERS, 
      NOT IN YOUR PRAYERS.  KEEP IT _OUT_ of your mind!

   7. Be outgoing and friendly. Force yourself to be with others and
      learn to enjoy working and talking to them. Use principles of
      developing friendships found in books such as _How to Win Friends
      and Influence People_ by Dale Carnegie.

   8. Make a pocket calendar for a month on a small card. Carry it with
      you, but show it to no one. If you have a lapse of self control,
      color the day black. Your goal will be to have _no black days_.
      The calendar becomes a strong visual reminder of self control and
      should be looked at when you are tempted to add another black
      day. Keep your calendar up until you have at least three clear
      months.

   9. In the field of psychotherapy there is a very effective technique
      called _aversion therapy_. When we associate or think of
      something very distasteful with something which has been
      pleasurable, but undesirable, the distasteful thought and feeling
      will begin to cancel out that which was pleasurable. If you
      associate something very distasteful with your loss of
      self-control it will help you to stop the act. For example, if
      you are tempted to masturbate, think of having to bathe in a tub
      of worms, and eat several of them as you do the act.

  10. Keep your bladder empty. Refrain from drinking large amounts of
       fluids before retiring.

  11. Reduce the amount of spices and condiments in your food. Eat as
       lightly as possible at night.

  12. Avoid people, situations, pictures or reading materials that
       might create sexual excitement.

  13. It is sometimes helpful to have a physical object to use in
       overcoming this problem. A Book of Mormon, firmly held in hand,
       even in bed at night has proven helpful in extreme cases.

  14. In very severe cases it may be necessary to tie a hand to the bed
       frame with a tie in order that the habit of masturbating in a
       semi-sleep condition can be broken.

  15. Do not let yourself return to any past habit or attitude patterns
       which were part of your problem. Satan Never Gives Up. Be calmly
       and confidently on guard. Keep a positive mental attitude. You
       can win this fight! The joy and strength you will feel when you
       do will give your whole life a radiant and spiritual glow of
       satisfaction and fulfillment.

--




