From: Vinnie Moscaritolo <vinnie@webstuff.apple.com>
Date: Thu, 8 Aug 1996 08:51:13 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: e$: Watching the MacRubble Bounce
Message-ID: <v03007803ae2e770bd71e@[204.179.128.38]>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Man,
 you guys have way, WAY to much time on your hands. CP is starting to sound
more like a bunch of bickering old ladies than the usual bickering group of
old ladies (uh I mean crytpo anarchists) . I would have responded and put a
round through the head of this discussion a few days ago, but my digest
feed to cp died a few days ago.

Since all this  crap seems to center around a conversation between me and
Tim , and really should have stayed that way, (Bob, consider this a rap on
the nose with a rolled up newspaper) lets just clear up a few points nad
then please move on to the next subject.

By developer demand I am hosting a technical workshop for Mac Crypto
developers <http://webstuff.apple.com/~opentpt/crypto.html> and asked Tim
if he would like to speak, I though that since he has so much interesting
stuff to say on the net that he might want to share it with some folks who
write code for a living.

Tim declined. no problem, normaly that would have ended it there, but Tim
went on to state that I excluded him from the Mac Crypto list, I replied
that I did no such thing and that I inherited the list (and hence any guilt
I guess), He went on further deriding the Mac.

I have been on the net long enough to no longer care about religious wars
about "how long who's pull down menu was", BUT, I belive that Tim was a bit
out of line with some of his comments about Mac Developers and Apple
employees. I have a problem with that. We emailed a bit and came to the
agreement that Tim would not be an appropriate speaker for a Mac technical
workshop. fine, end of story,lets move on.

But then Bob comes along and does his rant, the point was not so much to
pick on Tim, which I belive he didnt name, but more to point out why the
Mac is an important platform for crypto. Tim reacted and the pissing
started. Lets just end it now. I am sure you all have better things to do.

What I am concerned with is that in all the noise the following points are
being lost in the fog of war.

1) there a a LOT of Mac clients on the Net. windoze might be popular in the
corporate office, but Macs are still easier to configure (prove me wrong),
and hence do have a place in this world.

1a) The Mac also has one of the best networking environment available for
the desktop platform, OpenTransport IS very fast. And do me a favor dont
complain about opendoc until youve tryed and write code with OLE.

2) Apple is nowhere near dead, anyone who says this is either smoking
something harsh or lives in media painted world. The same people that say
Macs are dead are the same uneducated liberal buttheads who write in the
San Jose Merc Pravda about how a disarmed populus is a free(h)er one.

3) If you want strong crypto to get to the masses then you better start
paying attention to genetic deversity or as I like to call it Watership
Down syndrome, If you put all your crypto eggs in Bill's basket then don't
complain when you find that the MicroSoft CAPI only supports escrowed keys.

so lets all grow a little thicker skin and move on with it. while you all
piss and moan, your rights are being stolen away, If you want to help
crypto suceed then you have to care about Macs, just as much as windoze or
Sun or Be or whatever platform.

Back to work.





Vinnie Moscaritolo
------------------
"friends come and friends go..but enemies accumulate."
http://www.vmeng.com/vinnie/
Fingerprint: 4FA3298150E404F2782501876EA2146A






