From: reagle@rpcp.mit.edu (Joseph M. Reagle Jr.)
Date: Thu, 5 Dec 1996 08:40:56 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Bank Of America To Launch Internet Banking System 12/02/96
Message-ID: <9612051640.AA23802@rpcp.mit.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



  	  				 
TOKYO, JAPAN, 1996 DEC 2 (NB) -- By Martyn Williams. Bank of America  
is due to offer its credit card customers the ability to perform 
basic account transactions via the Internet next year. The bank will 
be using a system currently under development by Hitachi Ltd. and Bank 
of America subsidiary Concorde Solutions, a Hitachi spokeswoman 
confirmed to Newsbytes today. 

"The new system will enable credit card transactions via the  
Internet," said Hitachi's Emi Takase. "Bank of America is aiming 
to market the system from August, 1997." 

Customers should be able to check credit card balances and account  
details, apply for credit limit increases, and many of the other 
actions that a telephone is currently used for. 

Concorde Solutions, a company 70 percent owned by Bank of America,  
will develop the application for users with Hitachi. It will run on 
top of the Japanese company's TP Broker system, an object request 
broker that was developed with Visigenic Software Inc. 

Launch customer for the system will be Concorde parent Bank of  
America, but plans are for the system to be marketed to other banks. 
"The product will be sold by both companies afterwards," said 
Takase. 

(19961202/Press contact: Emi Takase, Hitachi Ltd., +81-3-3258-2055,  
fax +81-3-3258-5480, e-mail emi@cm.head.hitachi.co.jp; Reported By 
Newsbytes News Network: http://www.newsbytes.com) 
--	 
		   C O P Y R I G H T * R E M I N D E R 	

   This article is Copyright 1996 by Newsbytes News Network.  
   All articles in the clari.* news hierarchy are Copyrighted and licensed  
to ClariNet Communications Corp. for distribution.  Except for articles 
in the biz.clarinet.sample newsgroup, only paid subscribers may access 
these articles. Any unauthorized access, reproduction or transmission 
is strictly prohibited. 
   We offer a reward to the person who first provides us with  
information that helps stop those who distribute or receive our news 
feeds without authorization. Please send reports to reward@clari.net. 
[Use info@clari.net for sales or other inquiries.] 

   Details on use of ClariNet material and other info can be found in  
the user documentation section of our web page: <http://www.clari.net>. 
You can also read ClariNet news from your Web browser. 
  	   	




