From: John Gilmore <gnu@toad.com>
Date: Tue, 23 Apr 1996 16:54:37 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: EFF member discount @ Forum on Information Security, Apr. 29
Message-ID: <199604230438.VAA04546@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Benjamin Group and The Churchill Club graciously offer a discount to EFF
members ($20 instead of $35; includes filet mignon dinner, etc.)

                    The Forum on Information Security
             Celebrating 20 Years of Public Key Cryptography
                  Monday, April 29, 1996 -- 6 to 9 p.m.
         At the San Francisco Airport Marriott Hotel (Burlingame)
     Dinner and Forum: $20 for Club & EFF Members, $35 for Non-Members

                  Call 408-371-4460 to Make Reservations

This program is supported in part by an unrestricted grant from Cylink
Corporation


Press Release
-------------

                     FORUM ON INFORMATION SECURITY 
          TO REVIEW LEGISLATION TO COMBAT ECONOMIC ESPIONAGE 

Senate and House Bill Sponsors to Join FBI and U.S. Postal Service 
Representatives, Along With the Inventors of Public Key Cryptography,
in Discussing Ways to Safeguard Sensitive Data and Electronic Commerce

                                For More Information, Contact:
				Gary Quackenbush
				The Benjamin Group Inc.
				408-559-6090; fax (408) 599-6188
				gquack@s.v.tbgi.com

				Kate Apgar
				The Churchill Club
				408-371-4460


BURLINGAME, California (April 22, 1996) -- The Forum on Information
Security, Celebrating 20 Years of Public Key Cryptography, will be held
next Monday night, April 29, 1996, from 6 to 9 p.m in the main ballroom
of the San Francisco Airport Marriott Hotel in Burlingame, Calif. 
Topics to be addressed include:  What is the threat to national economic
security?  Will Federal export rules be eased on strong public keys? 
Should government have copies of your secret codes?  Can
state-of-the-art encryption be used by everyone in the U.S.?  And will
the legislation now in Congress solve these problems?

Sponsored by The Churchill Club, Silicon Valley's premier non-profit
public affairs forum, this event is supported in part with an
unrestricted grant from Cylink Corporation.   The purpose of this Forum
is to address increasing public concerns over the rise in economic
espionage, which -- according to a White House study -- is estimated to
cost American businesses up to $100 billion a year as some 23 countries
target U.S. trade secrets. 

Keynote speakers will include Senator Conrad Burns (R-MT), Senator
Larry Pressler (R-SD), and Congressman Robert Goodlatte 
(R-VA), sponsors of three separate legislative initiatives focusing on
relaxing government restrictions on the use and export of strong
encryption systems.  

The Forum is also being held to honor the founding fathers and
inventors of Public Key Cryptography, Whitfield Diffie, Martin Hellman
and Ralph Merkle, who some 20 years ago developed the original, patented
secure encryption algorithms used today as the pioneering technology
behind the Data Encryption Standard (DES), Digital Signature Standard
(DSS) and other standards-based cryptosystems.  The three inventors will
provide their perspectives on the past, present and future of Public Key
Cryptography

The program agenda also features a number of other information
security experts including:

David Morris, Vice President with Cylink Corporation, will serve as
master of ceremonies for the Forum and set the stage for the evening by
outlining a five-part criteria essential for a hackerproof information
security system.

Jim Omura, Chief Technology Officer and co-founder of Cylink, will
provide a definition of Public Key Cryptography and other unfamiliar
terminology required to understand the technology and how it impacts the
public and private sectors.

James Freeman, FBI Special Agent in Charge of the San Francisco area,
will provide an overview of the threat to national economic security
with examples of investigations involving Silicon Valley high-tech
companies.

Paul Raines, Project Manager with the U.S. Postal Service, will preview
the soon-to-be-announced electronic postmarking system, the first
nationwide consumer application of Public Key Cryptography incorporating
a certificate authority and key registry bureau.

For Forum information and reservations, call the Churchill Club at
408-371-4460.  The fee for this event is $20 for Churchill Club members
and $35 for non-members and includes a full-course dinner and the
program.   Registration and the cocktail hour starts at 5:30 p.m. at the
San Francisco Airport Marriott Hotel in Burlingame with dinner at 6:00
p.m. immediately followed by the program at 6:35 p.m.


Agenda
------

The Forum on Information Security
Celebrating 20 Years of Public Key Cryptography

San Francisco (Burlingame) Airport Marriott Hotel
April 29, 1996  (6 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. PDT)


5:30 p.m.    Registration and Seating Begins (Cocktail Hour at Cash Bar)
  
6:00 p.m.    Dinner is Served: Marriott Hotel Ballroom 2nd Floor

6:30 p.m.    Ken Roberts, Principal, New Futures World Marketing, 
	and Churchill Club President, Gives Welcome, IntroducesMC

6:35 p.m.    David Morris, Vice President, Cylink
	Corporation. Overview of Events by Master of Ceremonies
	The Five Essential Ingredients of Any Data Security System

6:45 p.m.    Jim Omura, Chief Technology Officer, Cylink
	Corporation, and a Co-Founder of the Company
	What is Public Key Cryptography?

7:00 p.m.     Senator Conrad Burns (R-MT) 		
              Senator Larry Pressler (R-SD) 			
              Congressman Robert Goodlatte (R-VA)
	The Need for Legislation to Ease Export Restrictions
	and to Ensure the Widest Possible Utilization of
	Strong Encryption Systems in the United States

7:45 p.m.   James Freeman, Special Agent in Charge, FBI
	(Federal Bureau of Investigation), San Francisco Office
	The Threat and Reality of Industrial Espionage in the Bay Area

8:00 p.m.    Paul Raines, Project Manager, USPS
	United States Postal Service
	Electronic Postmark Service and the Key Registry Bureau,
	The First Nationwide Application of Public Key Cryptography
	for the Average Citizen Incorporating a Certificate Authority

8:15 p.m.     Whitfield Diffie, Martin Hellman, Ralph Merkle
	Pioneering Inventors/Developers of Public Key Cryptography
	Comment on the Past and Future of Advanced Cryptosystems.
	20 Years of Public Key Cryptography (Panel)

9:00 p.m.     Award Presentations, Conclusion & Summary (David Morris)




