From: mpd@netcom.com (Mike Duvos)
Date: Fri, 2 Feb 1996 07:13:56 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: The Boys From Brazil - cloning Nazi servers
Message-ID: <199602012239.OAA04660@netcom2.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


ses@tipper.oit.unc.edu (Simon Spero) writes:

 > There's a fine line between defending someones freedom of
 > speech, and actively promoting that speech. The reason these
 > mirrors have been set up is to counter the restriction on
 > access to the original site that has been put in place by
 > Deutche Telecom; however, in addition to defeating this
 > restriction, this approach also makes the material more
 > widely available than it was previously, which could be seen
 > as crossing the line between defence of free speech, and
 > active promotion.

I think you have to look at the balance between two things.

First, there is the effect of making the material more widely
available and publicized than it was prior to the attempted
censorship.  This effect is definitely real.  Indeed, prior to a
few days ago, I wouldn't have known a Zundelsite from a hole in
the ground.

Second, however, is the unprecedented opportunity for people
running mirrors to guarantee that large numbers of the public
will encounter said material for the first time enveloped within
their chosen "context wrapper."

Now it is well known that the crafty art of propaganda rarely
consists of deliberate falsehoods, like "yellow rain" or "spy
dust".  It mostly consists of making sure one is in complete
control of the circumstances in which potentially damaging
information is disclosed.

The opportunity to present Mr. Zundel's views brightly
gift-wrapped in paper bearing the legend - "Here are the
offensive views of a hate-mongering Nazi whose victims are
supporting his right to be heard" - is worth more than a thousand
press releases denouncing Mr. Zundel by the anti-defamation
brigade.

I would expect that it is this second effect which predominates,
and therefore the proliferation of mirror sites is in fact a
victory for Mr. Zundel's detractors, and not a promotion of Mr.
Zundel's views.

--
     Mike Duvos         $    PGP 2.6 Public Key available     $
     mpd@netcom.com     $    via Finger.                      $





