From: nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)
Date: Fri, 1 Mar 1996 04:07:26 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Top Spy Hawks GAK
Message-ID: <199602291708.SAA10852@utopia.hacktic.nl>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Admiral William O. Studeman Accepts Position on Premenos
Board of Directors

Concord, Calif., 28 Feb 1996 -- Premenos Technology
Corp., a leading provider of electronic data interchange
(EDI) software solutions for electronic commerce
applications, today announced the election of Admiral
William O. Studeman, U.S. Navy-retired, to its Board of
Directors effective immediately. Studeman will also act
as consultant on special projects including security and
encryption issues.

Admiral Studeman, age 56, is the former Deputy Director
of Central Intelligence and served for five months in
1995 as the acting Director of Central Intelligence. He
retired from the Navy in October 1995. Prior to his
assignment at the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA),
Studeman was the Director of the National Security Agency
(NSA), and before that was the Director of Naval
Intelligence.

In these positions, Studeman was involved in attempting
to develop public policies and technologies that
addressed the complex and often conflicting issues of
enhanced economic competitiveness, law enforcement's
warranted requirement for information transparency in
pursuit of criminal investigations, national security
interest in combating potential information warfare
threats, and the country's overall increased need for
enhanced protection of its information-related systems
and applications.

In commenting on his election to the Board of Premenos,
Studeman stated that "Premenos is not only a leader in
facilitating the promising future of electronic commerce,
it is the first company in the marketplace with a product
line for enhanced protection, security and integrity for
the Internet and other electronic communications-related
business transactions."

Studeman added, "In working with Lew Jenkins and others
in the company, I have an opportunity to better frame the
government-industry dialogue and define the
infrastructure, standards, regulatory, technical and
other directional factors which must be addressed for
electronic commerce -- a rapidly evolving industry
segment so fundamental to the future of the American
lifestyle and national security."

Lew Jenkins, chairman and founder of Premenos said, "The
infrastructure for moving critical business data over the
Internet is crucial to the success of electronic
commerce. We welcome Admiral Studeman to our team and
look forward to his help in developing a trusted model
for the electronic commerce market and establishing a
solid infrastructure similar to the stringent military
requirements that have been in place for decades."

About Premenos Corp.

Premenos is setting the agenda for electronic commerce
and EDI through open networks such as the Internet. 
Premenos EDI software is an enabling strategy for
transforming how corporations conduct business in
extended enterprises using electronic communications.

Templar -- a suite of software and services that enable
businesses to send and receive EDI documents securely and
reliably over the Internet -- was awarded the EMA '95
Electronic Commerce Product Excellence Award recognizing
the most innovative new product debuted at EMA's annual
conference.

Premenos products support the IBM AS/400, RISC
System/6000, HP 9000, SunSparc, Windows 3.x, NT and
Windows 95. Premenos has a worldwide presence with sales
offices in California, London and Paris.

Contact Premenos World Wide Web (WWW) home page at
http://www.premenos.com to access over 3000 pages of
information on electronic commerce, EDI, standards, as
well as Premenos corporate information materials.

--






