From: Frank Schroth <Frank_Schroth@zd.com>
Date: Tue, 6 Aug 1996 07:39:58 +0800
To: zdnet <zdnet@news.zdnet.com>
Subject: Personal View @2.0 Released
Message-ID: <9608052256.AA4175@mail.zd.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Dear ZD Net Member:

We're pleased to announce that the all-new ZD Net Personal View, 
the Web's premier source for personalized computing news, is now 
available at no charge, exclusively to registered members of ZD 
Net. 

With computing news and information -- now from over 650 respected 
sources -- ZD Net's Personal View allows you to create your own 
computing information service on the Web, tailored to track only 
the information that matters most to you.  

Save time searching and surfing.  Use Personal View to get a wide 
spectrum of coverage on the computing information you need to stay 
ahead.  And remember, it's all available in one place, it's updated 
24 hours day and it's FREE for our registered users!

We'd like to invite all of our ZD Net members to put the new 
Personal View to work for you. Click on the Personal View link on 
ZD Net's home page or go direct to www.pview.com to check out our 
brand-new look and, more importantly, all of our new features:

     -- More news from a wider range of sources (over 650!), 
     -- Expanded search capabilities (including 2 months of archived 
        information)
     -- More flexibility in creating your personal Profile
     -- Plus links to the very latest ZD Net news and features 
        related to your unique interests.

If you've already come to rely on Personal View, we know you'll be 
impressed with the improvements we've made. And if you haven't had 
the chance to visit Personal View, now is the perfect time. Just 
point your browser to www.pview.com, take a minute to set up your 
Custom profile and you'll have you're own personal information 
service on the WWW.

Thank you for your continued use of ZD Net!    We look forward to 
serving your computing information needs for a long time to come.

Sincerely,
ZD Net Personal View Team 




