From: Sam Quigley <poodge@econ.Berkeley.EDU>
Date: Fri, 26 Jul 1996 06:29:43 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: remailer network/winsock remailers
Message-ID: <Pine.SUN.3.91.960725110229.10878A-100000@quesnay.Berkeley.EDU>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Hi,

I've been unsubscribed from the list for a while, and only recently 
rejopined, so this issue may well have been addressed in my absence.  If 
not, though, here:

It occurs to me that, with the invention of the winsock remailers, we 
have the potential to establish a very widespread and distributed network 
of part-time remailers.  Specifically, it seems like there are a lot of 
users who are only connected to the internet for short periods (PPP/SLIP) 
or who only have full control over their machines for short periods.  
These computers could not normally be used to run remailers as mail 
would bounce when the computer/remailer software is down.

If there were some sort of central registry where winsock (or other 
non-permanent) remailers could announce their ability/inability to bounce 
mail, email could be forwarded through these temporary remailers on a 
dynamic basis.

I imagine the system would be something like this.  User X, a part-time 
cypherpunk, turns on his PPP connection to get his internet fix.  When he 
does, his remailer software connects to a central site and registers 
itself, the software (and capabilities of the software) it's using, and 
how many email messages (CPU time) X is willing to give up.  The registry 
sends back a confirmation message, and adds X's computer to its list.  
Now, when user Y wants to use the remailer network, she sends a message 
through a series of remailers, one of which is the remailer network host 
computer.  When the message gets to the host computer, the host looks at 
its list and bounces the message randomly to one of the winsock 
remailers.  In this way, people who can't ordinarily run a remailer can 
still help out with the network, and the message becomes, ultimately, 
much more untraceable because (ideally) there are tons of temporary 
remailers that the message could have been sent to.  This could expand 
the network by a lot...

I imagine precautions would have to be taken to ensure that temp. 
remailers really are up and running (the host would have to ping remailer 
computers regularly to ensure that none went down without informing the 
host).  It would also be good if incoming messages to the host remailer 
could specify how many hops it should take, whether or not it should be 
subject to random delays / burst sends, and other options which haven't 
occurred to me yet.

This can't be a new idea, though.  If something like this already exists, 
please send me a pointer.  If not, I'd be willing to help develop a 
protocol for client / server interaction.

-sq





