From: Andrew Loewenstern <andrew_loewenstern@il.us.swissbank.com>
Date: Tue, 12 Mar 1996 14:18:38 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Mile High Snakeoil
Message-ID: <9603111947.AA00418@ch1d157nwk>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


I was flipping through a copy of Spirit, the official magazine of Southwest  
Airlines, while on a flight to Vegas and found a thoroughly enjoyable  
advertisement for a crypto product.  Underlines and emphasis are theirs.

----  Begin Snake-Oil Advertisement  ----

__UNBREAKABLE__ COMPUTER SECURITY AND PRIVACY AT A __BREAKTHROUGH__ LOW PRICE!

Stonewall-Drawbridge - Encryption Sytem

In the face of the increasingly dangerous invasion of professional, business  
and personal privacy, unbreakable computer security at an affordable cost is  
a must.  Lawyers, Accountants, Doctors, other professionals whose stock in  
trade is confidential information are especially vulnerable to malpractice as  
a result of unprotected information.  It is important to deal with this very  
real potetial problem before it becomes a problem.  Every business, every  
individual must also be concerned about computer security.  Encryption can  
now be used to secure everything from credit card numbers to legal documents.  
 Encryption through totally unbreakable Stonewall-Drawbridge is your  
ultimate security blanket.

*Available Only to United States Citizens*

STONEWALL an unbreakable, streaming type algorithm, 100 to 10,000 times  
faster than other encryptions.  Stonewall compresses prior to encryption,  
eliminating the possible invasion of your computer files.  Its key cannot be  
broken except by random chance, once in a million years.  Good for DOS;  
Windows 3-1;  Windows 95 operating systems.....   ......$195

DRAWBRIDGE applies mathematical algorithms to encrypt messages and uses a  
quasi-infinite, one-way transfer to ensure veracity.  Drawbridge uses an  
Infinite Venegere Key (IVK), combined with a one-way private key transfer  
which is impossible to break, except by chance, once in a million years.  It  
also incorporates a forge-proof digital signature for verification and  
authentication insuring absolute transmittal protection.

STONEWALL-DRAWBRIDGE ENCRYPTION SYSTEM provides unbreakable security  
protection for your "need to protect" files, archives and computer to  
computer transmission.  The Stonewall-Drawbridge System is the ultimate  
encryption system, unmatched by anything else available...at a price that is  
significantly lower than any competitive product.  This means it is  
affordable for every professional, business or individual who needs and seeks  
total and unfailing computer security....especially on the  
Internet.......$295
(includes a second system for your choice of contact)

(800) 610-0859  Mr. Thomas
<order form deleted>
(30 Day Money Back Guarantee)

Make Checks Payable to: HWI
747 E. Green Street, Suite 300, Pasadena , CA 91101-2119

----  End Snake-Oil Advertisement  ----


andrew




