From: William Knowles <erehwon@c2.org>
Date: Tue, 9 Jul 1996 20:55:23 +0800
To: Mike Duvos <mpd@netcom.com>
Subject: Re: [RANT] Giving Mind Control Drugs to Children
In-Reply-To: <printing.1088.0004B9A3@explicit.com>
Message-ID: <Pine.SUN.3.94.960709022546.4459B-100000@infinity.c2.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE----- 

On July 8th, 1996 Herr Doctor Duvos wrote:
 
>Medicating a disease is fine.  Recreational uses of relatively
>harmless intoxicants and are also fine.  It is the inappropriate
>use of strong medicines with serious side effects by clueless
>people for vague criteria like "reaching his or her potential"
>that I have a problem with. 
 
I have a problem with people like Mike Duvos who think that 
folks like myself and others on this list with ADD use having 
ADD as a crutch for being fidgety, not getting their work done
on time, or worst yet, Fired.
 
I wish people like Mr. Duvos could walk a mile in my shoes before
making off the cuff remarks, I wish I could get jobs done on time,
I wish that I could finish one project before starting three more!
My office looks like someone tossed a hand grenade in it,
Proposals to the left, Job quotes to the right, jobs is various 
states of completion, Lost jobs to my inattentivness to my clients,
Lost good clients because of having ADD and not knowing it!
 
I wish I would have known about ADD eariler than now, I might
not have been the complete fuck-up that I was in school, and worst
than that, The nearly ten years after high school.  One of my wishes
did come true, and that was finding out that I do have ADD.
 
Ritalin has been a godsend, I am able to dialin when I have to.
Ritalin is not the only drug for treating ADD, Prozac works for
some.  There are times when I need the boundless energy to
find time to be creative and I stop taking my meds, but its only
for short periods, I remember all too well what I was like without
knowing what the problem was with work, love, and life in 
general.
 
Below is a list of famous people with Attention Deficit Disorders 
and/or Learning Disorders, and I'd be willing to bet that Perry Metzger
either has, or knows someone with ADD. 
 
Albert Einstein, Galileo, Mozart, Wright Brothers, Leonardo da Vinci,
Bruce Jenner, Tom Cruise, Charles Schwab, Henry Winkler, Danny Glover,
Walt Disney, John Lennon, Winston Churchill, Henry Ford, 
Stephen Hawkings, Jules Verne, Alexander Graham Bell, Woodrow Wilson, 
Hans Christian Anderson,Beavis, Nelson Rockefeller, Thomas Edison, 
Gen. George Patton, Agatha Christie, John F. Kennedy, Whoopi Goldberg, 
Rodin, Thomas Thoreau, David H. Murdock, Dustin Hoffman, Pete Rose, 
Russell White, Jason Kidd, Russell Varian, Robin Williams, Louis Pasteur, 
Werner von Braun, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Robert Kennedy, alberto Tnmba
Prince Charles, Gen. Westmoreland, Eddie Rickenbacker, Gregory Boyington, 
Harry Belafonte, F. Scott Fitzgerald, Steve McQueen, George C. Scott, 
Tom Smothers, Lindsay Wagner, George Bernard Shaw, Beethoven, Carl Lewis, 
Jackie Stewart, "Magic" Johnson, Weyerhauser family, Wrigley, John Corcoran.
 
One can only wonder how much more great some of the people on this list would 
be today if they knew ADD back then. 
 
 
William Knowles
erehwon@c2.org
 
 
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.6.2
 
iQCVAwUBMeI+wgURbnwsNLz5AQHM6AP/Zln3eu50jKdhkER4Go3uBp0a4zlVUYti
pW71AHLR8VydFaMM7iJFhYmv7vgFeuA1cAo27Hq1Pb8LZ/uucPRACKI8ku/XsVHh
9wdPsEKXMo0pHftnVHmuFb3dVtAA9jYKfGw3SwpktNkACQMvGHU2Z5+DkbetvSZm
xrMSjCpxlvM=
=ucXF
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
 
--
William Knowles    <erehwon@c2.org>
PGP mail welcome & prefered / KeyID 1024/2C34BCF9
PGP Fingerprint 55 0C 78 3C C9 C4 44 DE   5A 3C B4 60 9C 00 FB BD
Finger for public key
--






