From: Rich Salz <rsalz@osf.org>
Date: Sat, 6 Jan 1996 08:57:38 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: http://www.rsa.com/rsalabs/cryptobytes/
Message-ID: <9601051755.AA04835@sulphur.osf.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


FYI.

---------- Begin Forwarded Message ----------
From: <Jueneman@gte.com>
Message-ID: <30ED605E-00000001@wotan.gte.com>
Date: Fri, 05 Jan 1996 12:31:08 EST
Subject: Recent cryptographic findings
To: ietf-pkix@tandem.com

For those who may not have seen it, the most recent issue of CryptoBytes (Vol1, 
No. 3) put out by RSA Laboratories has a wealth of information in it.  I have 
not had the time to fully digest the importance of all of the articles, but in 
the first one Adi Shamir has proposed an "unbalanced RSA" variant of RSA which 
"makes it possible to increase the modulus size from 500 bits to 5,000 bits 
without any speed penalty."

Another article discusses means of deliberately constructing collisions (due to 
Hans Dobbertin of the German Information Security Agency) when using MD4, and 
concludes that "where MD4 is in use, it should be replaced." So far, at least, 
it appears that MD5, RIPEMD, and SHA-1 would resist this kind of attack, but a 
certain amount of nervousness might be in order.

(Hugo Krawczyk of IBM Research and I considered some of these possibilities in 
conjunction with work we did on the SEPP protocol, which uses a salted hash 
function  as a means of confirming the knowledge of a secret to a third party 
without having to use encryption. We were concerned that collisions might be 
possible, and also that it might be possible to partially reverse a hash 
function and glean at least information about the message that was being 
hashed, (the credit card number) in the case of a very short message. We ended 
up proposing a combination 140-bit hash function which includes both MD5 and 
SHA-1, assuming that it would be much more difficult to break both algorithms 
than just one. I will post the analysis to this list in a subsequent message.)

Finally, Burt Kalisky provides a compendium of some of the possible attacks 
against RSA, and discusses simple and practical countermeasures.

It seems to me that the most important of the various attacks involve the 
encryption and decryption of small messages. Since small messages are 
frequently generated for key exchange and for signature purposes, it is 
important that we consider these issues carefully. In particular, the use of 
pseudo-random padding for both encryption (a la the Bellare-Rogaway Optimal 
Asymmetric Encryption Padding) seems very beneficial, and padding is also 
important in the signature block.

This group certainly ought to examine these issues very carefully, and we 
should probably give serious consideration to adopting OAEP for message 
encryption and key exchange. I believe we should also give serious 
consideration to a increased length message digest function such as SHA-1, and 
perhaps incorporate the use of multiple message digest algorithms for 
particularly important signatures , e.g., CA certificates.

The back issues of CryptoBytes are available at 
http://www.rsa.com/rsalabs/cryptobytes/.


Bob

----------------------------
Robert R. Jueneman
GTE Laboratories
1-617-466-2820 Office

"The opinions expressed are my own, and may or may not
reflect the official position of GTE, if any."

----------- End Forwarded Message -----------





