From: "Perry E. Metzger" <perry@piermont.com>
Date: Sat, 8 Jun 1996 11:59:51 +0800
To: hallam@etna.ai.mit.edu
Subject: Re: Anonymous stock trades.
In-Reply-To: <9606071731.AA04519@Etna.ai.mit.edu>
Message-ID: <199606071820.OAA18322@jekyll.piermont.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



hallam@Etna.ai.mit.edu writes:
> Call someone a fool, invite ridicule... ohhh perry does that make
> you feel big?

Not nearly as big as insisting that all around acknowledge your
doctorate must make you feel, Dr. Phill Hallam-Baker, PhD.

I like the fact, by the way, that you essentially ignored the
substance of my comments, and instead chose to discuss peripheral matters.

If anyone wants to see real discussion of environmental issues with an
emphasis on market based solutions, rather than arguments pulled out
of the buttocks of Dr. Phill Hallam-Baker, PhD, I suggest the writings
of, among others, Karl Hess Jr. (oh, and Dr. Phill Hallam-Baker, PhD
might wnat to know that its Dr. Karl Hess)

> I asked my stock broker about the trades Hilary did. Sorry Perry,
> you were wrong 5% margin is sufficient in most markets.

Only in some markets, but that doesn't matter. She had even less than
that on all of her trades, or didn't you pay any attention, Dr. Phill
Hallam-Baker, PhD. You should have been able to figure that out from
my remarks, incidently -- had she merely been controlling $20,000
worth of cattle with a $1000 investment she couldn't possibly have
wiped out her net worth on a single transaction. Control hundreds of
thousands or millions of dollars worth of cattle, however, and a
sneeze in the marketplace will cost a pretty penny.

Frankly, I think this latest flub demonstrates you don't know any of
the facts of the case, You can't name the size of her trades. You
didn't even know whether she was trading options or futures. I suspect
you are just plain ignorant of the entire situation and are pulling
facts out of your buttocks, largely for reasons of your partisan
support of the Clintons.

Perry




