From: "Dave Banisar" <banisar@epic.org>
Date: Wed, 24 Apr 1996 08:01:00 +0800
To: "Cypherpunks List" <cypherpunks@toad.com>
Subject: Golden Key Campaign
Message-ID: <n1381851986.93640@epic.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain




PRESS RELEASE

Wednesday, April 24, 1996

URL: http://www.privacy.org/ipc/

Contact:  Marc Rotenberg, EPIC, 202/544-9240 
          Lori Fena, EFF, 415/436-9333
          Barbara Simons, USACM 408/463-5661
          Kurt Stammberger, RSA, 415/595-8782

                ------------------------------------------

                     INTERNET PRIVACY COALITION FORMED

                        Golden Key Campaign Launched

           Groups Urge Good Technology for Privacy and Security

                  Senator Burns to Introduce Legislation

                ------------------------------------------

WASHINGTON, DC -- A new coalition today urged support for strong technologies
to protect privacy and security on the rapidly growing Internet. The Internet
Privacy Coalition said that new technologies were critical to protect private
communications and on-line commerce, and recommended relaxation of export
controls that limit the ability of US firms to incorporate encryption in
commercial products.

Phil Zimmermann, author of the popular encryption program Pretty Good Privacy,
expressed support for the effort of the new coalition. "It is time to change
crypto policy in the United States. I urge those who favor good tools for
privacy to back the efforts of the Internet Privacy Coalition."

GOLDEN KEY CAMPAIGN LAUNCHED

The Coalition has asked companies and Internet users to display a golden key
and envelope to show support for strong encryption technology. Copies of the
logo are available at the group's web page on the Internet. 

According to Lori Fena, director of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, the
purpose of the campaign is to educate the public about new techniques for
privacy protection. "Society's feelings about privacy have not changed, only
the medium has," said Ms. Fena.

US industry has pressed the US government to relax export controls on
encryption as consumer demand for software products has increased. They cite
the fact that foreign companies have been able to sell strong products in
overseas markets that are now restricted for US firms.

Jim Bidzos, President and CEO of RSA Data Security, said that US firms
continue to face excessive burdens. "Encryption is the key to on-line
commerce.  Government regulations are simply keeping US firms out of important
markets."

The Internet Privacy Coalition is the first attempt to bring together a broad
base of companies, cryptographers and public interest organizations around the
central goal of promoting privacy and security on the Internet and urging
relaxation of export controls.

Dr. Barbara Simons, chair of the public policy committee of the Association
for Computing said, "The broad support for the Golden Key campaign shows that
the reform of encryption policy is a shared goal for companies, users, and
professional associations."

SENATOR BURNS TO INTRODUCE LEGISLATION

The Internet Privacy Coalition is being established as Congress considers new
legislation to relax export controls on encryption. Senator Conrad Burns
(R-MT) today introduced legislation that would relax export controls on
commercial products containing technologies for privacy such as encryption.

Marc Rotenberg, director of the Electronic Privacy Information Center, said
"We believe that Senator Burns has put forward a constructive proposal. We
look forward to working with him to ensure that good tools for privacy and
security are widely available to Internet users."

Hearings on Senator Burns bill are expected to take place in early June. The
proposal has already gathered support from a bipartisan coalition in Congress.

For Internet users who are interested in following the debate about encryption
policy, the IPC has set up a Web page with information about encryption
regulations, court challenges, legislative developments, and organizations and
companies involved in the campaign.

The Internet Privacy Coalition was established by more than a dozen of the
nation's leading cryptographers, and thirty associations, companies, and civil
liberties organizations committed to strong privacy and security technology
for all users of the Internet.  

                    URL: http://www.privacy.org/ipc/

                            ----------------------------------------------

 

A KEY, AN ENVELOPE -- Both are historic means for communicating privately and
protecting personal information.  Today, encryption tools provide this privacy
in the electronic world.

The Golden Key Campaign is being launched to raise awareness and support for
the preservation of the right to communicate privately and the availability of
new techniques which make it possible.

Privacy, a fundamental human right, has been affirmed by the US Supreme Court,
the constitutions and laws of many countries, and the United Nations 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights.  Privacy must be preserved as we move
from paper to electronic communications.

The Internet Privacy Coalition is urging members of the net community to
display a Golden Key & Envelope symbol on their Web pages to show support for
the right of privacy and the freedom to use good tools of privacy without
government restraints.

                ----------------------------------------------







