From: jbugden@smtplink.alis.ca
Date: Tue, 17 Sep 1996 02:09:12 +0800
To: tcmay@got.net (Timothy C. May)
Subject: RE: Workers Paradise. /Political rant.
Message-ID: <9608168428.AA842894324@smtplink.alis.ca>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


tcmay@got.net (Timothy C. May) wrote:
>"Saving for a rainy day," whether saving, investing, getting an education
(while others are out partying), preparing, etc., all takes effort and
commitment. If those who save and prepare are then told they have to pay
high taxes to support those who partied....well, the predictable effect 
[...] is _more_ people in agony. When you tell people that a compassionate
society will meet their basic needs, a predictable fraction of them will choose
not to work hard and prepare themselves.

Two questions, two observations:
Do you have health insurance?
Do you have life insurance?

I have commented on your line of reasoning before and and it still seems to me
that an important part of the discussion is missed. Specifically, that anyone
can "save for a rainy day" and still not be able to provide for events that can
always happen: Heart attack, stroke, car accident, pinched nerve that leaves you
in excruciating pain and unable to work for several years.

I don't think that a reasonable person would argue that medical insurance should
be outlawed because everyone should take care of their own needs. A social
safety net is simply a form of health and life insurance. Statistical arbitrage
if you will. By spreading the risk you minimize the cost. Yes, some people will
take advantage of the system. But like a virus, a robust system should be able
to withstand this form of attack.

I'm reminded of a Bloom County cartoon with Opus, Steve Dallas and Bill the cat
sitting on a park bench as a jogger runs past. he derides the trio saying, "I
jog three miles and work out every day, eat only healthy foods, and have regular
medical checkups. I'll live twice as long as you lazy slobs." In the next panel
the jogger is hit by lightning as the trio on the bench look on in shock. The
last panel: "Here's to no guarantees!" and "Pass the ding dongs."

Prend soin,
James

[Bible excerpt awaiting review as a motivation for human decency.]
The ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully: And he thought
within himself, saying, What shall I do, because I have no room where to bestow
my fruits? And he said, This will I do: I will pull down my barns, and build
greater; and there will I bestow all my fruits and my goods. And I will say to
my soul, Soul, thou hast much goods laid up for many years; take thine ease,
eat, drink, and be merry. But God said unto him, Thou fool, this night thy soul
shall be required of thee: then whose shall those things be, which thou hast
provided? 
[excerpted from Luke 12:16-20, King James Version]







