From: William Knowles <printing@explicit.com>
Date: Sat, 15 Jun 1996 15:01:20 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Level30 Newsletter (fwd)
Message-ID: <Pine.BSD.3.92.960614025524.25568B-100000@miso.wwa.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



---------- Forwarded message ----------

Recently, you requested from our email autoresponder a copy of
The Agincourt Project.  You were not alone.  That document has
made its way around the world.  Law enforcement agencies, public
officials, prosecutors, ISP's and concerned citizens have all been
reading it.

And it has made a difference.  Illegal obscenity and child pornography
IS being removed from the Internet.

And now that the first round of the CDA legal battle is over, and
the focus in the battle against Internet pornography will change
back to the enforcement of local obscenity and child pornography laws.

But the issues are complex, and a single document is just not enough
to keep the public informed.  And so we have started Level30.

Since you had an interest in The Agincourt Project (whatever your
position on it), we thought you'd be interested in Level30.

To receive this biweekly (or more frequently) newsletter, simply send
an e-mail message

     To:  majordomo@databack.com
     Subject:  (leave blank)
     Message:  subscribe level30

About the Purpose - To instruct families on how to safely use the
Internet, and to inform families, law enforcement, the media and
other interested Internet organizations about breaking news in the
fight to keep illegal pornography and child pornography OFF the Internet.

About the Title - This is the Offense Level mandated by the United States
Sentencing Commission for the trafficking of child pornography often
found on the Internet in Usenet newsgroups.  (Base offense level - 17;
if the material involves a prepubescent minor, increase by 2 levels; if
the offense involves distribution, increase by at least 5 levels; if the
offense involves material that portrays sadistic or masochistic conduct
or other depictions of violence, increase by 4 levels; and if a computer
was used to transport or ship the visual depiction, increase by 2 levels.)
(The Sentencing Table can be found at http://www.ussc.gov.)

About the Author -  Paul D. Cardin, P.A

     Member of the Board of Directors of Oklahomans for Children And
         Families (OCAF)
     Author of The Agincourt Project - the electronic expose that explains
         how Internet Service Providers (ISPs) are responsible for the
         distribution of illegal pornography and child pornography
         throughout America.
     Architect of the most effective and successful campaign in the United
         States today to stop the electronic distribution of illegal
         pornography and child pornography.
     Former officer in the Oklahoma Civil Liberties Union

About the Regular Features -

     America's Most Wanted - A list of public corporations that are the
          enemies of America's children and families because of their
          continued electronic distribution of illegal pornography and
          child pornography.
     (Your State Here)'s Most Wanted - A state by state list of ISPs that
          are the enemies of children and families because of their
          continued electronic distribution of illegal pornography and
          child pornography.
     Commentary - Incisive and hard hitting analysis of the legal and
          constitutional issues facing the Internet today.
     Battle Reports - Updates from the front lines, from "war
          correspondents" across the country-
            The court battles over the Communications Decency Amendment.
            The status of OCAF against the Oklahoma ISPs.
            The status of Loving v. Boren - is it a ridiculous waste of
               taxpayers money or will it be the definitive Internet
               court ruling?
          The status of other important electronic obscenity court cases.
          The status of battles yet to be engaged.
     Special Reports -
          Testimonies from the victims of pornography.
          Profiles of the men and women  who are engaged in the battle to
               free our society from its plague.
          Interviews with law enforcement officers, prosecutors, and ISPs.

You should subscribe to Level 30 if:

     You are an INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDER who wants to stop violating
          federal and state obscenity and child pornography laws.
     You are a LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER or PROSECUTOR who wants to learn
          how to stop ISPs from violating federal and state obscenity
          and child pornography laws
     You are a PUBLIC OFFICIAL who wants to learn how to keep illegal
          pornography and child pornography off of publicly owned and
          operated computer systems.
     You are a UNIVERSITY OFFICIAL or LIBRARY OFFICIAL who wants to learn
          how to keep illegal pornography and child pornography off of
          your university or library computer system.
     You are a SCHOOL OFFICIAL or TEACHER who wants to learn how to keep
          illegal pornography and child pornography off of your school's
          computer system.
     You belong to a CHILD ADVOCACY or WOMEN's RIGHTS group and you want
          to learn how to fight illegal pornography and child pornography
          on the Internet.
     You belong to a CHURCH or RELIGIOUS GROUP and you want to learn how
          to fight illegal pornography and child pornography on the
          Internet.
     You are a CORPORATE EXECUTIVE or PR OFFICER who wants to learn how
          to avoid extremely damaging publicity for your company.
     You are a REPORTER who wants to stay one step ahead of the above.

     Or, finally.......

     You are a PARENT or GRANDPARENT who wants to learn more about how to
          keep the Internet safe for your children and/or grandchildren.

 Thank you for your time.


--





