From: help@pathfinder.com
Date: Mon, 2 Dec 1996 14:03:24 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Pathfinder Personal Edition Launches
Message-ID: <199612022203.RAA05964@tigger.dev.pathfinder.com.pathfinder.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Dear Friend of Pathfinder:

We invite you to discover Pathfinder Personal Edition, the new personalized
news and information service available exclusively on Pathfinder.

With Pathfinder Personal Edition, you can customize the news to make it
YOUR news.  You just specify your areas of interest, and with the click of
a mouse, Pathfinder Personal Edition searches the most comprehensive
collection of up-to-the-minute news sources available online (including
over 20 specialized news wires and some of your favorite magazines -- Time,
Fortune, Money, People, Sports Illustrated, Entertainment Weekly and Life)
and brings back to you news, sports scores, stock quotes, and even your
favorite cartoons.

With Pathfinder Personal Edition you're not just getting raw information
from news feeds, you're getting in-depth information that's valuable to
you, complete with analysis.  Pathfinder Personal Edition even has a staff
of real editors working every day to bring you the top stories from their
areas of expertise.  And with eight graphical formats to choose from and
control over how sections and articles appear, Pathfinder Personal Edition
literally makes the news your news.

Everything is up to you -- you can build your own newspaper from the ground
up or choose one of our six Editor's Editions from the newsstand and make
it your own by personalizing the content right down to your local weather.

Pathfinder Personal Edition puts everything in one place, so you spend less
time wading through unwanted information and more time soaking up what you
want to know.

With this special risk-free offer, you can try Pathfinder Personal Edition
for free for two full months!  Avoid information overload -- try Pathfinder
Personal Edition today: http://pathfinder.com/promo

Sincerely,
Pathfinder

Pathfinder Personal Edition - Retrieves your world.





