From: Rich Salz <rsalz@osf.org>
Date: Mon, 22 Jan 96 20:35:21 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Random noise from disk drives
Message-ID: <9601230431.AA06742@sulphur.osf.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Don Davis  has done some interesting/important/widely-referenced work on
using disk latencies as a random number source.  We were talking about
some of his techniques, and he kindly gave me permission to forward along
his email.  He's not on the list, so I cc'd him.
	/r$

--------------------forwarded message-----------------
well, if you're willing to accept a temporary peak
load on your machine, then a paging rng is easy to
write.

the basic idea that worked is:
    * allocate a little more memory than is available in ram;
    * walk through it in steps of a prime # near 4kb or 5kb;
    * time each access with whatever system clock is easiest;
    * throw away accesses that take less than 5 millisec or so;
    * keep only the parity of each access that remains.

naturally, on the first passes through the array, you'll
get mostly fast accesses; thereafter, most accesses
will cause page-faults. mostly a page-fault's access-time
reflects where the page was on the disk, where the head
and spindle were before the page-fault, etc. that's why
you keep only the parity. however, you're not going to
get a bit of entropy from every access, by any means.

the reason for a prime-valued step is that you want to be
sure of visiting every page, but you don't want to have
to know the page-size. (i haven't checked this trick yet;
i used 2kb or 4kb steps, if i remember correctly).

the reason for the 5 msec cutoff is that it's rare for
a disk access to happen so fast, and you want to screen
out other causes of non-immediate memory accesses. you'll
only get a real access that fast, if at the moment of the
page-fault, the head's already in the right track, and if
the block you want is less than a third of a rev away
from the head.

i used a byte-indexed table to get the parity quickly.
you don't really need to bother packing the parity bits
into bytes; store the 1's and 0's as chars into the md5
buffer, & hash it; then, put the hash itself into the
buffer, xor more 1's & 0's back in on top, rehash, etc.
running md5 8 times as often as necessary doesn't matter.

note that this algorithm should defeat caching disk
controllers, but i haven't checked for sure. if it
doesn't, the symptom will be long stretches of fast
access-times.

any fancy stuff you put in, like feeding noise-bits
back into your path through the array, is a bad idea;
first, it really only adds pseudo-randomness; second,
it's liable to reduce the frequency of page-faults.
though i knew it was a bad idea, i tried it anyway,
lots of ways, and that's what i found. simple is best.

really, the only complicated code should be outside
the rng: reallocating when memory availability changes,
minimizing the ui, stuff like that.

it is worthwhile to run find, or some other filesys-
traversing program, while you're running the paging-rng.
the benefit is not from the changed paging-times, but
from the extra head-motion, which perturbs the spindle
speed.

if you choose to measure the rng's quality, study the
raw parity-bits, not the hashed output. the hashes would
look perfectly random, even if the parity bits were periodic.
look for periodicity (fft), long-term autocorrelation,
and measure the entropy with an entropy estimator. don't
bother with runs tests and the others; the hashing will
produce nice output bits, even if the parity inputs
are periodic or are highly correlated in the long-run.
but if they're not periodic and uncorrelated, the
output bits will be random, instead of pseudo-random.

on the only machine i studied closely, i got 100 bits/min, 
with a 1 khz interrupt-clock; if your interrupt schedule
is more frequent, then you can expect proportionally more
entropy.  remember that even for long rsa keys, you only
need enough entropy to prevent exhaustive key-search.
use 100 bits or so to seed the prng, then use the prng
to generate a prime.  reseed for each prime, and as
often as you can for symmetric session-keys. i don't
trust pseudo-random key-generation (it's no surprise
that i don't, i suppose).

please let me know if anything comes of this, like if
someone builds it properly before i get around to it.
i suppose i ought to build it, test it, and write a paper
about how much fun it was, but i have too much work, and
too many papers to write.
					-don davis, boston
-----------------egassem dedrawrof--------------------




