From: vinnie moscaritolo <vinnie@webstuff.apple.com>
Date: Fri, 5 Jul 1996 13:35:20 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Net and Terrorism.
Message-ID: <v03007600ae0219ea71e0@[38.26.2.85]>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Since this has become terror-punks I guess I should throw my e$.02 into the
fray.

I have to agree with the entity that call himself snow that one of the
reasons that you don't see so much civil induced terrorism in the US, (as
oposed to terrorism the Feds do) is because there is so many channels for
free speach here. This helps to vent and depresurize the situations. There
is little need for organizations to underground, since most things can (or
used to be) be better done out in the open. In fact you will attract less
governement attention that way.

Take Greedpiece (typo) GreenPeace for instance, they are able to perform
thier forms of terrorism very overtly, same for Anti-Abortionists.

Sometimes I am astounded by the lack common sense that government officials
display. Bill Klinton and his media budies (Ted Copulate etc) are the best
recruiters for Militia groups, After the OKC bombing, his accusations of
Militia involvement pissed off so many middle of the roaders that
memberships showed a marked increase. Thanks to Sen Fineswine, Semi-Auto
purchases had a record year in California. (does she have stock in
Norinco?) There is no conspiricy on the governements part, just plain
stupidity.

>Then why do you float ideas such as buying out the Soviet arsenal if you
>think it isn't possible?

actually I know of an individual who did just that: he bought out an DDR
arsenal, and flew it into Ohio on a Soviet transport. Scared the shit out
of the  ATC working the airport that day. Result: large supply of Soviet
SKS, Moisan-Naggant and AK's for gunshops, just in time for the Fineswine
blue light special. he made big bucks.

>however, we will probably
>    see that again in parts of the world as many cultures do not have the
>basic
>    respect for life we do.  the first time you witness a small child begging
> for chocolate exploded by a remote control pressed by her father, you
> understand --you do not necessarily like it, it's just survival.
> and faced with a decision of giving up 'n' "friendlies" for 1000n, or even
>  more, to survive, I know where I stood, and still stand

Yes it does have a way of changing the way you look at the world. I only
wish the clowns in office who make the decisions that the grunts guarding
the embassies should have empty mags, could see any of this shit. War does
suck, and suck in a big way, and when your there, and I don't mean watching
it on CNN, you ARE in a world of hurt.

> if the U.S does adopt the police state tactics Bubba
>    is espousing, the U.S. will be faced with _real_ terror, not staged
>    incidents  to justify the martial law, etc.

Roger that, an I for one don't want to see that war fought on US soil. This
is the part that scares me the most.

So my point is, the more the government inflates a non existant problem,
the bigger the problem gets.  The part that really bothers me is that too
many times these are all diversion from important issues.    The American
people seem to be on a steady diet of OJ and CNN,  when the war, the real
war that will shape the future gets no media coverage. Things like
education, and economic strategy are just not sexy enough for TV.

>However, you will never be able to buy out  the religious terrorists
> --they are on a "mission."

I was always taught They have nothing left to lose..make em happy and send
em to Allah (or whatever) as quickly as you can.

>There is no cure for the "revolutionary" terrorists ..
> If we do not even print their obit, there is no glory!

Tim, you are asking for the liberal media to act responsibly.. what were
you thinking?

speaking of liberal media,  I have lost all creditibility with my Bostonian
friends this week trying to tell em about the feature I saw in the San Jose
TV news, where some animal expert actually suggested admininstrating
tranquilizers to the family poodle in preparation for 4th of July
festivities..something do with fireworks.  OK maybe in Santa Cruz the
animals (at least the ones downtown) are already on tranquilizers. But who
wants a dog that can't deal with loud noises anyways, he'd be useless for
huntin.


But what do I know.. I just practice law Samoan style.



Vinnie Moscaritolo
------------------
"friends come and friends go..but enemies accumulate."
http://www.vmeng.com/vinnie/
Fingerprint: 4FA3298150E404F2782501876EA2146A






