From: Blanc <blancw@cnw.com>
Date: Wed, 12 Nov 1997 14:58:14 +0800
To: cypherpunks@Algebra.COM
Subject: Re: Br'er Tim and the Bug Hole
Message-ID: <3.0.32.19971111225642.006a8a68@cnw.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Robert Hettinga wrote:

>So, my overall point is, Tim, that you shouldn't try so hard to be a crash
>test dummy for the new world order. Throwing rocks at cop cars is great fun
>when you're say, 12, but doing it when you're 40 can do bad things to your
>permanent physical health in rather short order. Revolution is really a
>young man's game. I mean, even the IRA guys want to retire...
.....................................................


Not to cut into Tim's War here, but Bob -  

The Truth is everybody's "game".  If a person is content with a lot of
nonsenical static on their connection to Reality, it's their decision if
they wish to tolerate it - and it's true they could leave it to someone
else (younger? wiser? more courageous? better equipped?) to take up the
cause of cleaning it up. 

It is also true that one can create around oneself a Reality full of
monsters and tigers and bears (oh, my!), totally leaving out the rest of
the functioning elements in the actual context of the given circumstance.
A person could focus so exclusively on the evil which permeates the social
atmosphere, that they miss out on the opportunities available for achieving
improvements by normal, rational, peaceful means.  

(I read once that Steve Jobs, during his Eastern Mystic Religion phase and
his trips to India and such, realized that the introduction of and
advancement in certain innovative, industrial tools had done more for the
cause of civilization than any other efforts - political, religious, or
otherwise - to improve it.  When he went home he kept this in his
philosophical file as he went forth with his ideas on a computer which
would "change the world".  And he did have some very positive,
revolutionary effects on artists everywhere. :>) )  

Perhaps you mean that *violent* revolution is best left for the young.
But you must acknowledge that the situation *could* get really bad, as bad
as he imagines.   It may not be wise to threaten the mad dogs into
aggression, but there is value in publically identifying the fundamental
poisoning of the intellectual air we are breathing; there is no reason to
forfeit ground for the sake of the delicate sensibilities of predators in
sheep's clothing.  

Tim being so fortified with guns & ammo, he may feel more free than anyone
to speak fearlessly (carelessly?).   Of course, it's easier to display
courage when your defenses are established & strong (and he does sound like
a hammer looking for a nail).   

    ..
Blanc





