From: nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)
Date: Fri, 14 Nov 1997 02:07:21 +0800
To: cypherpunks@Algebra.COM
Subject: NSAscape
Message-ID: <199711131759.SAA03444@basement.replay.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain




http://home.netscape.com/info/security-doc.html

NETSCAPE PRODUCTS WITH FORTEZZA 

 Netscape is now offering client and server products with
 FORTEZZA, hardware-enhanced security services
 originally developed by the U.S. government. Netscape's
 offerings include Netscape Navigator 3.01 with
 FORTEZZA, Netscape Enterprise Server 2.01 with
 FORTEZZA, and Netscape Proxy Server 2.0 with
 FORTEZZA - each of which provides a unique web-based
 solution by integrating FORTEZZA security features in a
 commercially available, off-the-shelf package. 

 Netscape's products work with the FORTEZZA Crypto
 Card, a hardware-based security token, to provide
 cryptographic services such as data confidentiality, user
 authentication, and data integrity. Support for FORTEZZA
 has been added to the Secure Sockets Layer (SSL)
 protocol, which provides a straightforward way to add
 encryption features to existing applications and network
 infrastructures. SSL is application protocol independent and
 provides the following benefits: 

      encryption capabilities for client and server
      communication that restrict unwanted access to the
      network 
      authentication that uses certificates and digital
      signatures to verify the identity of parties in
      information exchanges and transactions 
      data integrity that allows the receiver of data to check
      that it has not been modified in transit 

 Netscape products with FORTEZZA support the use of
 FORTEZZA with SSL as an enhanced alternative to
 software-based cryptographic mechanisms. 

 The FORTEZZA Crypto Card is a major component of the
 MISSI program, a network security initiative led by the
 National Security Agency in partnership with industry and
 standards organizations. MISSI's goal is to distribute an
 evolving set of solutions that provide secure interoperability
 in a network security framework based on common security
 standards and protocols. 

 In addition, Netscape is working with information security
 specialist Litronic and others to develop, integrate, and
 support the FORTEZZA cryptographic interface. Litronic
 offers its FORTEZZA PC Crypto Card and PCMCIA
 Card Readers/Writers for use with the new Netscape
 products with FORTEZZA. Litronic is based in Costa
 Mesa, California and offers the software and hardware tools
 that organizations need to easily integrate hardware-strength
 cryptography into existing applications. 

 Netscape products with FORTEZZA are currently available
 and can be ordered from Netscape Government Sales. You
 may contact a sales representative for product information
 and pricing at 415/937-3678. FORTEZZA Crypto Cards
 and PCMCIA Card Readers/Writers must be purchased
 separately. 


                                                MORE ABOUT THESE
                                                PRODUCTS 

                                                Data Sheet: 
                                                NETSCAPE PRODUCTS WITH
                                                FORTEZZA

                                                TECHNICAL SUPPORT

                                                USEFUL LINKS




        





