From: John Young <jya@pipeline.com>
Date: Mon, 3 Feb 1997 07:11:08 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: COM_int
Message-ID: <199702031511.HAA25741@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


2-2-97:

"Telecom equipment makers to develop encryption for mobile phones"

 Matsushita, NEC and Mitsubishi will cooperate in developing scrambler 
 technology to prevent interception of mobile phone calls and other 
 misuse, and will open a research laboratory in Yokohama on Feb. 12.
 Within five years the facility is to perfect encryption technology 
 to protect wireless communications and data transmissions, and for 
 possible use in electronic commerce. Researchers will work to develop 
 a mobile communications version of "public key" scrambling technology 
 now used to secure data transmitted online.

"Electronic Cash Via Wireless Phone, Smart Card In Works"

 Wireless telephones are about to get a new mission as portable money 
 machines. PacBell intends to test ways to blend its mobile phone 
 technology with a smart card that can dramatically upgrade the 
 intelligence of a wireless telephone. People on the go could transfer 
 funds into the card's memory, slide the card into the phone, and then 
 use the phone as a communications device to buy a variety of goods 
 and services.

"Sierra Wireless Combines Cellular Data, GPS; MP 200-GPS Modem 
Provides Both in a Single Package"

 The combination MP200-GPS product includes an MP200 rugged CDPD/cellular
 3-watt mobile modem, a state-of-the-art Trimble GPS receiver module and 
 a choice of magnetic mount or hard mount GPS active antennas. In addition, 
 the MP200-GPS includes an  internal microcontroller, so it can operate 
 without a PC or mobile data  terminal as a standalone tracking monitor. 
 A remote host computer can wirelessly program the unit to report position 
 on a preset timeout,  whenever the unit moves a certain distance, or if 
 an external alarm is triggered.

-----

COM_int







