From: tank <tank@xs4all.nl>
Date: Thu, 24 Apr 1997 00:53:27 -0700 (PDT)
To: tank@xs4all.nl
Subject: EU-summit Amsterdam 16-17 june
Message-ID: <199704240751.JAA26179@xs1.xs4all.nl>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


A HOT SUMMER IN AMSTERDAM

  On the 16th and 17th of June the Eurotop will take place in
  Amsterdam. During this gathering of European heads of state in the
  Nederlandsche Bank in Amsterdam work will be done on the creation of
  a single economic power. With the market as the key word social
  services will either be privatised or scrapped. Governing policies
  will be made behind closed doors by impenetrable power structures.
  This tiny group of national leaders will give all power to
  capitalism and at the same time all possibilities for democratic
  alternatives will be dismantled. This process will be helped along
  by increasing levels of control, both internal and at the external
  borders of Europe. 


 The heads of state have big ideas for this European conference. They
 want to formulate the Treaty of Amsterdam, or Maastricht 2, a
 rewriting of the European Union treaty that was signed in 1992. In
 this treaty they want to abolish the right of veto for national
 cabinets and bring in new laws for foreign policy, judiciary and the
 police.

  The Eurotop is a blessing for Amsterdam's council. They will get the
  chance to rid the city of its image as a Sodom and Gomorrah full of
  slums, drugs and the sex industry and will instead be able to
  present the city as a respectable economically sound international
  city. In order to present this image to the government leaders and
  to ensure that the conference runs smoothly there will be thousands
  of extra police officers bought into Amsterdam and a large part of
  the city will be made into security zones. In these security zones
  people will be required to prove their identity and the streets will
  be 'cleared' of the homeless, illegal immigrants and other
  'undisirable elements'. A view of the future perhaps?

  Fortunately there are a lot of people and organisations who are
  discontented with these plans and intend to show their disgust and
  carry out acts of resistance during the conference.

  People from other countries and cities are of course welcome. We
  have already planned a number of actions and events that will take
  place between the 12th and 17th of June. Here we have an incomplete
  list of events. These actions will be organised by a broad spectrum
  of progressive groups and individuals. Therefore each group is
  responsible for its own plans. The actions have been planned taking
  other groups and events into consideration, but it has been decided
  that there will be no 'central comitee' to organise everything.
  There will remain plenty of room for other spontaneous occurences.
  During the conference there will be a number of 'info points' in
  Amsterdam where people will be able to obtain information about what
  is happening. The addresses of these points is not available at this
  moment but can be obtained from our address after 1st May. We are
  unable to arrange sleeping places for everybody, you will have to do
  that yourself (or arrange thast people can come and stay with you!)
  Individual actions and initiatives are welcome, so that we will be
  able to show in all manner of ways that we are not happy with the
  current policies of the EU but want a different and more just world.

It promises to be a long hot summer.

AN INCOMPLETE LIST OF ACTIVITIES THAT WILL TAKE PLACE DURING THE
EUROTOP IN AMSTERDAM.

14-6 Demonstration against unemployment, poverty and                  
 exploitation. 
          From mid- April thousands of people will be marching to     
                Amsterdam from various different countries. These     
                      marches will meet in Amsterrdam on the 14th as a
                            demonstration against EU policy.

11-6/17-6 Top from the bottom.
          "Platform for another Europe', a collaboration of various
          progressive groups will be organising discussions, actions
          and theme days. This will be in the form of an alternative
          top with speakers from different countries. There will be
          workshops about unemployment, poverty, social injustice,
          feminist Europe, Europe and the south, Ecological Europe and
          so on.

15-6  Demonstration/Action at the Border Hostel. 
      The Autonomous Centre will probably organise a cycle
      demonstration through the city which will end up at the prison
      for refugees in south east Amsterdam. Exact details of this
      action will be publicised later.

13-6/15-6 Chaos Days. 
       Punks will be gathering in Amsterdam to turn the city upside
       down.

15-6  Demonstration at the Homomonument.
      A demonstration against the verdict of the European court that
      England is alloewd to make voluntary SM sexual practises
      illegal. This will take place under the slogan "Sexual diversity
      in Europe". Organised by Stichting Gala.

12-6/13-6 United Conference.
          The biggest NGO gathering of the European Year Against
          Racism. The themes of this will be "Fortress Europe",
          "Everyday racism" and "Institutional Racism", there will be
          speakers from various countries. This will be held in
          English.

16-6 Eurorave.
     LegalizE street party against the European drugs policy "and the
     other shit that they have got planned for us."

17-6 Euroblow 
     A massive smoke-in at the Nederlandsche Bank as a protest against
     the European drugs policy.

17-6 Autonomous demonstration at the Nederlandsche Bank.
     Angry people wearing balaclavas in a tearing hurry to get to the
     Nederlandsche bank. Meeting point 14-00hours at the Dam.




