From: Pilgrim <nfn04017@gator.naples.net>
Date: Fri, 13 Jun 1997 08:22:04 +0800
To: cypherpunks@Algebra.COM
Subject: Democratic Assassination
Message-ID: <l03102800afc6405bc170@[204.210.206.39]>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



>  Instead of putting child pornographers in prison we will put
>cryptographers and remailer operators in prison. Instead of
>confiscating the assets of drug czars will confiscate the assets
>of people who have a kid who smokes a joint once a week. Instead
>of censoring legislation which limits our freedom and privacy
>we will censor literature which proposes democratic assassination
>of those who oppress us.

Whoa there bud! I have a nagging feeling that democratic assassination is a
large can of worms than we realize.

There is something fundamentally wrong with a society that is built upon
the notion that those people who do and say unpopular things deserve death.
Yet that is exactly what a system of "democratic" assassinations would do,
enable a large group of people to intimidate and subvert a smaller group of
people.

So, for the sake of argument, let this system of anonymous democratic
assassination come to pass...then what? Utopia? Maybe....

But let's say that someone comes along later, proposing a way of living
that is radically different from the norm. Exhibiting a nasty
characteristic that has been inherent in the human races for eons....even
before the rise of large sprawling governments....the majority of people
decide that they don't like this troublemaker....through the process of
democratic assassination...this person is now dead. Forget even the shade
of a possibility that this person may have been right...that his way of
living ***may*** have been better than the norm. Right and wrong don't
matter. Popularity and the "mood of the crowd" do...this person said
somethig unpopular, and is dead because of it.

Freedom of speech?

Let's say that a group of people suddenly become unpopular. Perhaps times
are tough and the majority need a scapegoat. Maybe this group of people
have been long oppressed and are finally fighting back. Through a system of
democratized assassination....their leaders are dead....with no one willing
to take their place (out of fear)....maybe a few other random people are
killed just to really get these people quaking in their boots.

Or let's take it one step further. If democratic assassination is good, why
not democratic genocide. Let the people take a vote, and if the scale tips
the right way, an entire group of people need killed.

Is this good?

Let's take a step further. Going back to my first example, let's say that
someone comes along proposing a new way to live, and many people take to it
and follow this person. Unfortunately, this person has just happened to
make a few powerful enemies. Through a system of "democratic"
assassination, this person is now dead...and there is no way to catch
his/her killers.

Is this even democratic?

Even if digital cash, anonymous remailers and strong encryption could
enable us to set up a democratic system of assassination (which it
couldn't)...I still wouldn't want to live in a society where killing is
democratized...I do not want to live in a society where people can
abitrarily take a vote on whether I should live or die....

Just because a majority of people like an idea, does that make the idea any
more right or any less wrong?

I (and I would wager you) do not want to live in a society where it is
dangerous...even life threatening to be unpopular, and to go against the
flow. I know that I hold fast to ideas and beliefs which are hardly
considered popular....the only reason I'm not socially scorned, right now,
is because I'm very diplomatic about them....

You wrote a lot about "The Machine," as if it was some real, intelligent,
calculating conscience. It is not. While I do not doubt that "The Machine"
exists, it is not something that is tangible....it is a system...a way of
doing things...a set of entrenched powers...it is not a person.

"The Machine" won't be defeated by killing. Its weakness is far more
subtle..and takes a lot longer to exploit....but that's another story...for
another listserv.

That IRS guy that you want to kill? Sure, he might work for "The Machine,"
but killing him won't solve anything. Hating him won't solve anything. It
might be a short term fix, but there will be others. And perhaps, if you
stop and look at that IRS guy whom you hate so much...you might find that
	1) He has parents, maybe even a wife and children, all of whom love him
	2) He gets tired and night, and has to use the bathroom
	3) He gets happy, sad, lonely, depressed,

	He's another human being....just like yourself...indeed, the only
	difference between himself and yourself is how he makes a living.

And maybe...just maybe...he is just as big a victim of "The Machine" as you
are.

Of course, I'm not accusing anyone of wanting to kill anyone...or hating
anyone. I'm just throw this out because it is food for thought.

You write so much about "The Machine" causing division and hatred between
people.

Perhaps "The Machine" has manipulated you more than you realize.

Justice rarely comes out of hatred.

Regards,
Pilgrim

Regards,
Pilgrim






