From: "Vladimir Z. Nuri" <vznuri@netcom.com>
Date: Fri, 14 Feb 1997 12:57:30 -0800 (PST)
To: Tim May <tcmay@got.net>
Subject: Re: Keep it Simple and the Cypherpunk Way
In-Reply-To: <199702131958.LAA09879@toad.com>
Message-ID: <199702142057.MAA06000@netcom10.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



what TCM continues to stick his head in the sand over
is the fact that the list noise levels have gotten outlandishly
out of control over recent times, far beyond anything in memory. 
what is it due to? 

it appears that there is a basic law of cyberspace that S/N decreases 
as you add more people. it seems to be a very obvious and repeatable
property.

there are some significant lessons about cryptoanarchy that are
completely evading TCM. how well does anarchy scale? apparently, not
well. TCM would like to pretend that just deleting posts and having
outsider filterers is a "solution" to the problem and argues for
business as usual, upholding the status quo.

the problem is that when you have a deteriorating situation, the
status quo is not a valid concept. keeping the status quo means
further deterioration.

TCM also fails to address the problem of AGENT PROVOCATEURS. the
cyberspace list is intensely fragile and susceptible/ vulnerable
to them as Vulis demonstrates. it only takes ONE and a lot of 
tentacles. does TCM propose a solution to this? no, of course not,
because he has a blind spot when it comes to realizing the
PATENTLY OBVIOUS FLAWS OF CRYPTOANARCHY that stare him in the face.

if cpunks had a formal way of making decisions, and some loyalty
to each other, instead of BAILING OUT at the slightest difficulty,
perhaps the situation would be different, eh? see how quickly people
who were once friends simply WALK OUT on each other in the cryptoanarchist
approach? where is the loyalty? the sense of working for the greater
good? it's gone. TCM simply ABANDONS the list at the first opportunity,
and ignores the years of hard work that J.G. has put into it.

timmy, cpunks, etc. you are getting a lesson in REALITY. you are seeing
the logical conclusion of your views playing out before you.
acrimony, bitterness, resignation, chaos, confusion, cacaphony,
anarchy.





