From: nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)
Date: Sun, 27 Jul 1997 21:45:38 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Can you spell 'Stoopid'? Sure you can... / Re: thought for the day, and my IRS Investigations report
Message-ID: <199707271334.PAA23880@basement.replay.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



"David D.W. Downey" <Webmaster@CyberSpaceTechnologies.com> wrote: 
> Zooko Journeyman wrote:
> > My interaction with Jim Bell pretty much amounted to condemning
> > him and telling him to go to hell, CC'ed to cypherpunks.  And
> > I haven't received any IRS Investigations notes, so perhaps my
> > e-mail address wasn't included in Jim's little black book.

> Why does it always seem like there has to be someone out there that just
> HAS to be an idiot.

Dear Dave,
  Why does it always seem that it is the idiots who ask this question?

  Are you by any chance of fate related to the David Downey who spammed
the cypherpunks list with an announcement of his attempt to "get a
number
of the other cypherpunk lists together under one umbrella," then sent
several copies of his "Welcome to my fascist, censorous,
pseudo-cypherpunk
mailing list." message to the cypherpunks list (and subsequently
displayed
his lack of knowledge as to how to unsubscribe to a mailing list, let 
alone try to run one)?

> From: "David Downey" <digital_matrix@hotmail.com>
>  To: cypherpunks-unedited-outgoing@toad.com
>
> unsubscribe cryptography-politics-pgp-l

Welcome to The Privacy Channel's Cryptography-Politics-PGP-L. As you've
probably guessed from the list title, this list is dedicated to the
open, friendly, and intellegent discussion of Cryptography around the
globe.

  "Open, friendly, and intellegent discussion." ???!!!???
  Sounds like my "CypherPissing" mail folder would starve to death
if it counted on your list for its sustenance.

All are welcome here

  Thank God! I was afraid I wouldn't be able to discuss my pictures
of the Pope with his dick in the mouth of children being held down
by Mother Teresa.

Now, let's get a few things out of the way. The Rules!

  I'm starting to smell leather. Is it 'Jackboot' leather?

1) ABSOLUTELY NO SPAMMING ALLOWED!!!! I'll can ya in a heartbeat, as
well as speak to all the server owners that you traveled on.

  Are the capital letters meant to indicate shouting, a thick Nazi 
German accent, or both? And are you intending only to 'inform' on
and 'cause trouble for' *bad* people? Will there be 'spankings' 
involved (or does this cost extra)?

2) You keep it kind of clean. Keep the swearing and such down to a
minimum. 

  Ex-fucking-cuse me?
  Is there a swearing 'minimum' which is *required*, or only a 'maximum'
which is *allowed*? Do Tourettics require a note from their doctor to
call someone who sucks dick a cocksucker?

You can get your point across just as well without cussing.

  Right. Like there is a phrase other than "lying, fucking criminal,
god damn, rat-bastard Nazi motherfuckers" that could possibly come
close to describing our beloved legislators.
 
Flaming others is also considered bad karma here. I'd like to see folks
help each other around here. 

  "Why can't we all just get..."
  "... along."
        - Rodney King
  "...a long nightstick and just beat the fuck out of a nigger."
        - L.A. Chief of Police

After all, we are all we got!

  And "Wherever you go, there you are."
  And "Patience comes to those who wait."
  And "If God is Love and Love is Blind, then Ray Charles must be God."
  Will we be singing "Michael row the boat ashore." a lot on your list?

3) You try to keep as much as possible to the point, and to the content
of this list.

  OK, but it's going to make it a lot harder to sell my '67 Chevy
station
wagon. (It's an "anonymous" automobile with stolen plates. Perfect for
a cypherpunk.)

If you really want to talk about something else, let me
know. I'll get another list going.

  Great! Now I know who is in charge of giving me permission to talk and
is willing to control the forum in which I do it. Up until now I have
had to bear this terrible burden myself.

4) Respect others!!!

  Does the "!!!" imply "or else..."?

5) Finally, HAVE FUN!!!!!

  How? By telling you to stick your "rules" up your ass?
  "FUN" in a manner that meets your approval?
  Does your shouting "HAVE FUN" and the multiple exclamation marks
mean that having fun is 'required'?
  If so, will Jim Bell be allowed an exception to this rule, or will
he have to learn to enjoy being buggered by Prisoner #32289723?

I'm done. Talk to you on the List.

  You were done before you even got started. And shouldn't you have
said, "SHOUT AT YOU ON THE LIST!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!"?

  I think I'll join the "Miss Manners Cryptography List," instead.
It teaches proper oppression etiquitte, such as which fork to stick
in the eye of the Jackboots who kick in your door to demand your
secret key, and how to choose the proper wine to go with the shit 
that the government dishes out.

!have !fun,
  TruthMonger






