From: Toto <toto@sk.sympatico.ca>
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 18:44:04 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Exporting Virus Software
In-Reply-To: <3.0.32.19970113210258.006ade10@192.100.81.126>
Message-ID: <32DC60FE.5B14@sk.sympatico.ca>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Anonymous wrote:

> What's really going on here is that the NSA wants to know exactly
> what's out there in terms of virus protection and security software,
> so that if they need to release a virus or something they know exactly
> how to work around the defenses people are using.  You're not going to
> too many export applications denied for this kind of stuff.  It's more
> just a way for them to know exactly what's going on in that realm.

  Regulation for the purpose of knowing 'everything'.
  The original purpose of the InterNet was for the DOD to be able to 
eavesdrop on and monitor the movement and communications of scientists,
educators, and other hi-level movers and shakers in the world of the
intellect.
  When some of those using the InterNet refused to place their 'trust'
in the DOD's benevolence in making this technology available, choosing
to use it only for low-level communications, the DOD began exhorting
the wonders of 'data encryption', as a way to ensure InterNet users
of the privacy and security of their hi-level communications.
  With 'encryption', even the 'doubters' felt secure in the knowledge
that they could now communicate anything, at any level, and know that
their communications were 'safe' from unwanted disclosure.

  Then came a 'fly in the ointment'.
  A little shit-hole punk, non-DOD-non-NSA-schill named Phil Zimmerman
came out with an encrytpion program that the DOD did 'not' already have
the capability to read--one that they could 'not' break.
  All of a sudden, export of cryptography became a grand issue.  Why?
  ?Encryption software was already existent outside of the U.S.
  ?Encryption software was already being exported from the U.S.
  ?Encryption software was already available to all of those labeled
    by the U.S. government as 'enemies' who should be 'denied' use
    of this software.
  So why was Phil Zimmerman's 'backyard' encrytion program such a
threat to the powers-that-be?  Because they didn't already have the 
key to read it, and they couldn't break it--it wasn't an Enigma.
  It was the Inaugural Enigma.

  And export regulations for Virus protection programs?
  What reason can 'you' think of for the U.S. government not wanting
others to have 'full' protection from computer virus'?
  'Whose' virus is the U.S. goverment concerned about others having
protection from?

  Now that Phil Zimmerman has his legal problems 'sorted out', I
hope that he doesn't decide to write a virus protection program.
  It might 'work'.

Toto





