From: blanc <blancw@cnw.com>
Date: Sat, 1 Feb 1997 22:30:00 -0800 (PST)
To: "cypherpunks@toad.com>
Subject: RE: Cyphernomicon by Tim May
Message-ID: <01BC108F.F7C3BFE0@king1-20.cnw.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


From:	Toto

  What currently threatens the list, in my opinion, is not the dissension,
but the rise of a cliquish sheep-mentality and the resulting dismissal
of the opinions of people of Reason (and the opinions of 'anyone', in
general, whom 'I' perceive as being on the 'other side' of an issue).
........................................................................

Who are these sheep you're talking about?   At the end of the trial period, 
anyone still on the list who doesn't like the moderation can at their 
leisure either protest vehemently its continuation, producing masterly 
works of eloquence in favor of continuing the free-for-all, or they can 
unsubscribe (sp?).    They *don't* have to take it, or identify with the 
cpunks any longer.

I think what threatens the list is the absence of really major issues to 
fire up everyone's sense of indignation & imagination, plus the fact that 
many of the long-timers are pretty sophisticated on all the political 
issues which have been discussed before (how many of Tim May's long 
treatises, engaging, thorough, and relevant as they may be, can one read 
yet again without recognizing the repetitive themes therein), plus a lack 
of interest in engaging in rhetorical arguments with people who find it 
difficult to think in a straight line.   Sometimes the posts on the list 
come to resemble more attempts at educating the clueless than discussions 
among peers which could truly advance an understanding of between fine 
points of difference.

Whom can one blame for what does not exist (on the list) -  there is no 
mechanism for its production; only the attractions of the subject and the 
aim, are what bring in the participants who could provide substance and 
depth.

Perhaps waxing lyrical on the features of Eudora and regular reminders on 
the benefits of mail filtering would be encouraging to "the timid"?

    ..
Blanc





