From: Blanc <blancw@cnw.com>
Date: Fri, 25 Apr 1997 00:14:40 -0700 (PDT)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Cato forum on liquor advertising and electronic media
Message-ID: <3.0.32.19970425002053.0069bc70@cnw.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Bill Frantz wrote:

>What is highly amusing is the mounting evidence that alcoholic beverages in
>moderation are good for your health.  Of course, if you are one of the
>small percent of the population who can't be moderate, then you should not
>use alcoholic beverages.  But many people have bad reactions to various
>foods.  That's no reason to forbid them or their advertising.
...............................................


Well, of course I was taking aim not specifically against the mentioned
vices, but to the attitude of people who wish to protect children from
themselves in their forays into "dangerous" advertising territory.    That
is, to the attitude of calling for restriction and the setting of
boundaries, rather than of providing some explanations on life and what can
happen and how a person can deal with consequences.  But that would take a
lot of work and wisdom that they apparently don't feel they can offer. 

I have envisioned a time in the distant future, perhaps in a distant
galaxy, where static data is not a source of fear and children grow with an
open attitude to information - to the fact that it is they themselves, who
determine what shall be done, not bits of data.   I have always read so
many things since growing up, curiously poking into everything that was
available (my Mother would have cringed), and never was automatically
affected by it, but developed a total respect for a Universe of All
Possible Things, even if I never intended to involve or indulge myself in
trying out all that I encountered (in the library, bookstores, etc.)   

These people have this idea that because you look at a black hole you
inevitably must fall into it.   I guess it comes from their own lack of
self confidence.   Were they to have the aim of ascending from fear and
doubt into the expansion of their worldly perspective and development of
intelligent judgment about Reality, they wouldn't have to think of calling
upon intermediaries to put limits on their activities (or that of their
children) for them.   One should look for intermediaries only when one is
clearly helpless.   It's incredible to think that there is no self-defense
against fatuous advertising.

-- end of rant --
    ..
Blanc




