From: John Young <jya@pipeline.com>
Date: Fri, 14 Nov 1997 00:58:02 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Find the Mole in the Mirror
Message-ID: <1.5.4.32.19971113164457.00bf071c@pop.pipeline.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Monty Cantsin wrote:

>The right thing to do is to assume there are a certain number of moles
>around and engineer your activities accordingly.  If you really think
>you can Find The Mole, then I would think your first step is to keep
>quiet about what you are doing.

Like, if you will, Monty Cantsin, the venerable generic pseudonym
for sub rosa strategems. You fingering yourselves, Monty?

If you haven't been IDed as a mole here yet, you will, probably by
your own woefully engineered statements.

All of us are moles for one ideology or another, maybe for
several if the blowing wind tosses us that way. What's the
point of being here if not for relishment of deceitful faux combat, to
draw out the enemy (enemies) as Tim and Bob admirably display
in their artful allure of ulterior motivated peacemakers and
condescendors, me for one, as Declan love jousts CDT,
as many us pisswind DC, NWO, ZOG, Armenians, Nipponese. 

A mole is a disguise of something more treacherously insidious 
than that, say, a rational human, a benevolent mediator, an advocate 
for peace, for justice, for the constitution, or another an unadmitted 
plot for no-work supremacy through criminal law (lawful crime).

The mole(s) here are known, look in the mirror, and marked by the 
beast, look closely in the mirror, for XORing, their coming in all 
conceivable disguises welcomed, then tricked, attacked, ridiculed, 
and finally filtered, erased, deleted, plonked, censored, to resub
pseudonymously, rebooted, zapped, ignored, still we-they come 
back for more S&M, it's an addictive calling to evangelism, 
anon-remailer generic pseudonym reputation-capital real and 
imagined Ritalin nirvana. 

Nothing better to do with wasted lives, the option of getting one is 
a dream long gone. Faking one is all that's left, the mole in the
hole.






