From: Mix <mixmaster@remail.obscura.com>
Date: Tue, 11 Nov 1997 13:37:52 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: No Subject
Message-ID: <199711110513.VAA13432@sirius.infonex.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



While reading the report of the Presidential on Commission Critical Infrastructure Protection,
the Public Key Infrastructure Study and the draft plans for Internet-2, it is becoming
even more aparent what government schemers plan to do with encryption technology.

Some of the statements literaly call for key escrow/recovery systems and others
imply it extensively when one reads between the lines. They want security on the 
Internet-2 to be like the Berlin Wall.

What amazes me (I guess not, really) is all of the so-called free market corporations
that are in collusion with governent to enable this new Internet Security State. I have
long thought that if government is going to be successful at forcing key recovery onto
the nation in law that it was going to have to have the help of the major corporations
who are looking for the money. It was only one year ago that IBM was lobbying congress
for the contract on the new key escrow system congress was considering and the FBI, et al
were demanding. Never turn your back on the merchantilists.

The IRS, right now, is calling for assistance with their _second_ attempt at revitalising
their archaic networks, mainframes and software. Again, it's the major corporations
rushing in to their aid while looking for those "big dollars". [IRS just spent 4 Billion
a few years back on the very same effort and have virtually nothing to show for it]

Corporate America Saves the IRS. What a headline. Corporate America wants the IRS to be
able to survive to tax us all into oblivion, when what they ought to do is turn their
backs on the IRS, walk away and let them fall in on themselves just like the Soviet Union did.
If we're lucky, around December 31, 1999, the IRS will crash along with their computer systems.

Sparticus





