From: Tim May <tcmay@got.net>
Date: Thu, 24 Jul 1997 01:04:03 +0800
To: cypherpunks@Algebra.COM
Subject: Re: IRS sending warning notes, violating ECPA?
In-Reply-To: <199707231616.MAA19478@the-great-machine.mit.edu>
Message-ID: <v03102803affbe2b3efed@[207.167.93.63]>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



At 9:16 AM -0700 7/23/97, Ryan Lackey wrote:
>(I think Tim is doing a lot more for the cypherpunks cause by not being
>in jail than he would being locked up in jail pending trial for 5 months..
>but that's not really an issue anyway -- one's life is one's own, do as thou
>wilt and all)

Thanks.

I gather from the quoted comments in Ray A.'s and William G.'s messages
that Kent Crispin is arguing that I'm one of the sheeple because I have not
blown up any buildings or committed other felonies. (Actually, how does he
know I haven't? Perhaps my public personna is not the full story... Hmmhhh.)

(And Crispin was not around, on this list or anywhere in cyberspace I ever
noticed, a few years ago when I anonymously launched Blacknet, a
clearinghouse for military and other secrets. Consult the archives,
including the investigations launched by several agencies in D.C. I did it
as a technology demonstration, though I did get some weird offers of
information about how the CIA was targetting African diplomats for
compromise in Georgetown.)

Crispin also has a very poor understanding of what CPs have done,
apparently thinking the postings on this list in the short time he's been
here represent the sum total output.


>Something which I think would be more interesting would be if someone set up
>a fairly aggressive legal fund and technical assay organization to use
>the civil courts to try to challenge silly crypto laws, using some of the
>proceeds from evaluating and certifying vendor security products.  Something
>like a "contribute $1 by electronic cash system of your choice" to a variety
>of "charities" (things where you gain some tangible benefit by their success,
>like the repeal of crypto export legislation, etc.) -- perhaps some kind of
>silly web server which collected deposits, automatically did the paperwork
>for tax purposes, forwarded money to the organizations, etc., either
>anonymously or not.

Well, organizations like the EFF are active in exactly this way, handling
the Bernstein case, and with (I think) other involvements in other cases
(Karns, Junger?).  And of course the recent CDA victory is such an effort.

The courts are our best hope in striking down repressive legislation.
Congress is not a viable hope...they exist solely to generate more laws.

The only thing keeping the U.S. from falling headlong into a
cradle-to-grave total state is the Constitution. Not suprising, but let me
make a few points to show more precisely what I mean:

* Even with the First, which is clearly stated, there are constant attempts
to control and regulate speech. Imagine the explosion of legislation we'd
have without a clearcut First?

(Though the phrase has become puerilely hackneyed, I still like to use it:
"Just which part of "Congress shall make no law" do you not understand?")

* The Supremes recentlly struck down provisions of the Brady Bill, and
Clarence Thomas, in his written opinion, indicated that it may be time for
the Court to take a case involving the various attempts to short circuit
the Second. (We may see in the next several years a striking down of many
of the recent gun control laws.)

* The Court threw out the CDA and essentially made the same hackneyed point
I made above. The Court did what no amount of Congressional porkbarrelling
could ever do.

* Domestic restrictions on crypto are coming. Only the Court can strike
down these laws. Violations of the First (speech), Fourth (secure in one's
papers, search warrants needed), Fifth (self-incrimination), and other
provisions would seem likely points of attack.

Maybe I need to revise my views about nuking D.C.

Is there any way to have a shaped nuclear charge which would take out
Congress and the White House but leave the Supreme Court standing?

--Tim May

There's something wrong when I'm a felon under an increasing number of laws.
Only one response to the key grabbers is warranted: "Death to Tyrants!"
---------:---------:---------:---------:---------:---------:---------:----
Timothy C. May              | Crypto Anarchy: encryption, digital money,
tcmay@got.net  408-728-0152 | anonymous networks, digital pseudonyms, zero
W.A.S.T.E.: Corralitos, CA  | knowledge, reputations, information markets,
Higher Power: 2^1398269     | black markets, collapse of governments.
"National borders aren't even speed bumps on the information superhighway."








