From: Declan McCullagh <declan@well.com>
Date: Fri, 26 Sep 1997 22:56:33 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Congress to compromise away crypto-rights, from ComDaily
Message-ID: <v0300780fb0517712cbbe@[204.254.22.23]>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



[From ComDaily, a Washington trade publication. --Declan]

---

Markey/White Prevails

HOUSE PANEL APPROVES ENCRYPTION BILL IN REBUFF TO CLINTON, FBI

[...]

Rules Committee Chmn. Solomon (R-N.Y.) originally had
co-sponsored bill, then dropped off and urged rejection of
Goodlatte measure, declaring it harmful to national
security.  He said in letter to Commerce Committee members
that bill wouldn't get to House floor unless it includes
provisions with "crucial key recovery language" similar to
those in Oxley-Manton proposals and in Intelligence
Committee.  Spokesman said that while Rules panel could
send any version it wished to floor, Solomon wants to try
to work out compromise that recognizes national security
concerns.  Panel spokesman said Goodlatte should "be more
flexible and work out" differences with Intelligence
Committee.  Intelligence Chmn. Goss (R-Fla.) also is on
Rules Committee.

House Telecom Subcommittee Chmn. Tauzin (R-La.), who had
tried to find compromise before markup, said after evening
session that there would have to be more compromises.  He
proposed amendment to set up 5-member commission that would
have 180 days to study encryption and make recommendations.
 Tauzin said that "something will have to be worked out
that satisfies law enforcement."  He said "we're not
finished" with bill, said it was possible that study
proposal could emerge as compromise if no other agreement
could be reached:  "Just like there's no predicting where
the technology will be, there's no predicting where this
will end up."

[...]

Oxley said Thurs. his amendment lost because:  "The
Commerce Committee was being the Commerce Committee."  In
protecting its jurisdiction, with eye toward electronic
commerce, legislators paid attention to computer industry,
including Gates, he said.  However, he said "the bill isn't
going anywhere" unless law enforcement and national
security concerns are addressed.  Oxley said he hadn't
asked Solomon to hold up legislation, noting that
Intelligence and National Security panel bills have
provisions "stronger than mine."

[...]



-------------------------
Declan McCullagh
Time Inc.
The Netly News Network
Washington Correspondent
http://netlynews.com/






