From: Spam Man <sm@dev.null>
Date: Tue, 2 Dec 1997 02:29:20 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Spammernomicon
Message-ID: <3482FD71.3557@dev.null>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Selected passages from Spam-Bot: A Technical Manual for Independent
Spammers. 

It is my opinion that the professional spammer fills a need in society
and is, at times, the only alternative for "personal" anonymity.
Moreover, if my advice and the proven methods in this book are followed,
certainly no one will ever discover your identity. 

 Almost every man harbors a fantasy of living the life of Dimitri Vulis
or some other fictional hero who spams for fun and profit. They dream of
living by their knee-jerk reflexes, of doing whatever is necessary
without regard to moral or legal restrictions. But few have the courage
or knowledge to make that dream a reality. 

You might be like my friends -- interested but unsure, standing on the
sidelines afraid to play the game because you don't know the rules.
[But] within the pages of this book you will learn one of the most
successful methods of remailer operation used by an independent spam-bot
operator. You will follow the procedures of a man who works alone,
without backing of organized crime or on a personal vendetta. Step by
step you will be taken from research to equipment selection to job
preparation to successful job completion. You will learn where to find
employment, how much to charge, and what you can, and cannot, do with
the money you earn. 

But deny your urge to skip about, looking for the "good" parts. Start
where any amateur who is serious about turning professional will start
-- at the beginning. 

 [And when] [y]ou've read all the suggested material, you [will have]
honed your mind, body and reflexes into a precision piece of  spamming
machinery. You [will have] assembled the necessary tools and learned to
use them efficiently. Your knowledge of dealing spam [will have]
increased to the point where you have a choice of methods. 

[After you spammed your first victim,] you felt absolutely nothing. And
you are shocked by the nothingness. You had expected this moment to be a
spectacular point in your life. You had wondered if you would feel
compassion for the victim, immediate guilt, or even experience direct
intervention by the hand of God. But you weren't even feeling sickened
by the sight of the victim's pathetic reply. 

After you have arrived home the events that took place take on a
dreamlike quality. You don't dwell on them. You don't worry. You don't
have nightmares. You don't fear ghosts. When thoughts of the hit go
through your mind, it's almost as though you are recalling some show you
saw on television. 

 [E]verything seems to have changed. 

The people around you have suddenly become so aggravatingly ordinary.
You start to view them as an irritating herd of pathetic sheep, doing as
they are told, doing what is expected, following someone, anyone,
blindly. You can't believe how dumb your friends have become, and your
respect diminishes for people you once held in awe. 

You too have become different. You recognize that you made some
mistakes, but you know what they were, and they will never plague you
again. Next time (and you know there will be a next time), there will be
no hesitation, no fear. 

Your experience in facing anti-spammers head-on has taught you about
life. You have the power and ability to stand alone. You no longer need
a reason to spam.





