From: satan_is_a_hacker@juno.com (Lou Zer)
Date: Fri, 24 Jan 1997 07:05:46 -0800 (PST)
To: attila@primenet.com
Subject: Re: seeds of our own destruction
In-Reply-To: <199701240950.CAA01462@infowest.com>
Message-ID: <19970124.100221.21326.4.SATAN_is_a_HACKER@juno.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Very soon humans will not have any purpose in life but to replicate
themselves. At least before the computer came along we kept ourselves
busy. But now we are getting computers to do the jobs that make up life.
We already precluded the need for math a long time ago.But know their are
spell checkers and even applications that check your spelling as you
write. I just saw on "The Site" how computers will be in shoes, in milk
cartons and in door mats. The human bodies salinity will act as a
conductor for the binary information. You pick up the milk carton which
then tells your your shoes that its not fresh. Then when your foot
touches the door mat in Publix it tells your watch to beep and say "You
DONT Got Milk" Then their will be that the floor in your apartment tells
the coffee pot to make coffee because it found a low caffeine level in
your body. You can shake hands with someone  and automatically transmit
their business card to the hard drive in your shoe. The pay phone will
know exactly who to bill the second the receiver is touched. But what if
I bump into you, now I have your business card. What if I steal your
shoe! Oh but dont worry, all this information will be ENCRYPTED.As we all
know once something is encrypted its perfectly safe.Yeah right, And Bill
Gates still uses a 310 baud modem. If someone really needs to know what's
on your shoeputer then they will set their 1586 700Mhz (or whatever they
have by then) do do just that. So what if it takes 2 weeks or 2 months.
They will have every single aspect of your life from your medical records
to credit card numbers to phone number(will they even USE phone numbers
by then) to your shoe size. But wait theirs more. If you haven't been
crawling through a cave for the past few months you will see that Intel
boasts that their chips will be able to perform 2 gigaflops or 2 billion
calculations per second.Can you imagine that. If you did one mathematical
calculation per second it would take you 31 thousand years. It did it in
a second, don't you feel dumb. Now imagine had one of these bad boys and
your shoes. How long would it take? Two hours, three or maybe, if its
really dragging, a day.Thats just the good old steal it and use it
technique. I don't even want to go into how people could intercept
information, copy it, or make their own.Well , I think I caused you
enough cranial burden for today, so remember technology is like drugs,
there are always more and they keep getting more effective but you do not
need them. They need you.

								Jonathan
Leto




