From: dlv@bwalk.dm.com (Dr.Dimitri Vulis KOTM)
Date: Thu, 5 Jun 1997 12:25:37 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: [CONTROVERSIAL]: A Defense of Terrorism
In-Reply-To: <199706041913.OAA20798@mailhub.amaranth.com>
Message-ID: <wTXs8D4w165w@bwalk.dm.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



"William H. Geiger III" <whgiii@amaranth.com> writes:
> For the most part thoses labeled as "terrorist" are the one who are
> fighting against an aggressor. Most terrorist don't just wake up one
> morning and decide to start blowing things up. They only become active
> after a foreign power attacks them and they react in self defence no
> different if some one breaks into you house and you shoot them (I am sure
> that there are some liberal winnies here who think that selfdefence is
> wrong).
...

Rant: I think Joseph Stalin was a cool guy, even though he had my great-grandpa
shot (who was btw a U.S. citizen).

One of the many interesting contributions Joe Stalin made to the Marxist
theory was the observation that the class struggle intensifies as the
old mode of production becomes obsolete; and that there's really no difference
between "terrorist acts" and government-sponsored violence and economic
deprivation.  You might view the second statement as the generalization of
Klauzewitz's (or Bismarck's?) maxim that war is the continuation of foreign
policy by other means.

Consider, for example, the evolution from the feudal mode of production
to capitalism in Spanish Netherlands. The representatives of the Spanish
King first tries to suppress the emerging capitalism by increased regulation
and taxation. When that failed, they resorted to mass executions and
confiscations under the guise of fighting Protestants.

Consider, for example, a Black child in the United States who dies of
a trivial curable disease because of the lack of health care. Consider
the child's parents who labor "off the books" in menial jobs, who are
deprived by the state from the ability to marry, to work "on the books",
to hold a bank account, et al. Is being deprived from the results of one's
labor that different from being sold at an auctioned and whipped in
a public ceremony to terrify other (wage) slaves?

Joe Stalin himself took part in several spectacular terrorist acts in
his youth, which resulted in deaths of dozens of "innocent bystanders".

What I'm driving at is: someone said earlier that Cypherpunks don't make
bombs, Cypherpunks write code. Well, my response is, if you write code
for anonymous electronic commerce that seriously challenges the gubmint,
in a free market environment, then the gubmint will first try to regulate
it out of existence, and if it fails, it will use whatever force is
necessary, including jailing and shooting people, to fight for it survival.
The obsolete ruling class is doomed by thr inevitable historical process,
but it will put up a tremendous fight before giving up its ghost.

Prepare for crypto to be criminalzed. Prepare for the former cpunks who
"sold out" (C2Net and the like) to support criminalization of crypto use
within the U.S. in exchange for a possible relexation of export rules.
Prepare for any instrument that resembles bearer bonds to be outlawed.
Prepare for Internet gambling to be outlawed. Prepare for class struggle.

---

Dr.Dimitri Vulis KOTM
Brighton Beach Boardwalk BBS, Forest Hills, N.Y.: +1-718-261-2013, 14.4Kbps





