From: dapeebjk12@canopous.net.br
Date: Wed, 12 Nov 1997 03:45:18 -0800 (PST)
To: Friend@public.com
Subject: E-Mail Fortune Cookie
Message-ID: <>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


To:  All humans who love to open fortune cookies, and are tired of icky, unhappy, thoughts clogging the brain cells of humanity!!

From:  Email Fortune Cookie Company....specializing in the manufacture and distribution of insightful, creative, positive wisdom and advice contained in a unique and funny email fortune cookies! 

Positive, funny fortunes are much needed in this sometimes not so happy world!  No political slant...No religious agenda...just pure goodness...pure happiness, officially prepared as an email fortune cookie for YOU!

Are you tired of watching tv... looking at the newspaper...listening to your boss...your friends... all spout off how unhappy they are, about how doomed world is?  Kinda makes you blue doesnt it?

It is time to receive your own, positive email fortune cookie guaranteed to make you laugh, improve your thinking, and improve your life!  

You can receive your own email fortune cookie(EFC) and begin to change your thinking, and thus the thinking of our world.  The specially prepared EFC will speak to the purity and goodness of the human mind, and how well and good life is!  

It is time positive fortunes replace the end of the world idiots who love to hear themselves!! Lets wipe out negativity together and divert the apocolypse..acopolipt...or whatever!!!  hehe....

So, send one juicy dollar bill, <U>along with your email address, to:  

Email Fortune Cookie Company, 
P.O. Box 359, 
Preston, Missouri 65732

and a special, officially prepared "EFC" will be promptly delivered to your email address!

Why send one dollar?  Well, listen to this: money is a symbol of the life energy we extend to the universe.... I am sending you positive energy... and to prosper at the same time is the essence of living.  

Sincerely:

EMAIL FORTUNE COOKIE COMPANY

Disclaimer:  Your address was recently purchased from a mail list company as a person who is interested in business opportunities.  If  this is not correct and you would like to be removed off our master list, please e-mail removenow@rocketmail.com or call (800) 420-7252 and your address will be removed immediately.  Thank you for your patience.  





