From: Anthony Garcia <agarcia@Starbase.NeoSoft.COM>
Date: Thu, 25 Sep 1997 07:02:37 +0800
To: cypherpunks@Algebra.COM
Subject: FWD: Dear Representative Oxley
Message-ID: <199709242252.RAA14004@Starbase.NeoSoft.COM>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



For what it's worth.  -Anthony

Date: Wed, 24 Sep 1997 17:47:37 -0500 (CDT)
From: Anthony Garcia <agarcia@Starbase.NeoSoft.COM>
To: Mike.Oxley@mail.house.gov
cc: agarcia
Subject: Dear Representative Oxley

At this time, it looks like your ignorant, anti-Constitutional
amendment to the Safety And Freedom through Encryption Act will be
passed by the Commerce Committee.  This legislation may go on to
be passed by Congress and signed into law by the President.

In case this occurs, I would like you to make note of my home
address and telephone number.  They are:

Anthony Garcia
[address & phone elided for broadcast on cypherpunks list]

If I move to a new address in the future, I will update you.

I telling you this because I fully intend to willfully break
your stupid law exactly 1 minute after the moment it goes into
effect on January 1st, 1999.

I will:
- Manufacture an encryption product that does not support key
  escrow (I will compile source code for encryption software
  which does not support key escrow.)
- Offer to sell that encryption product to any takers for
  the sum of $1.
- Offer that encryption product for free to the public via FTP or HTTP
  file transfer over the Internet.
- Import an encryption software product which does not support
  key escrow by means of file transfer over the Internet from
  a foreign source.

So, get ready to arrest me, Big Mike.  Get out your old FBI shield and
shine it up, because I AM GOING TO BREAK YOUR LAW.  GOT IT?

Sincerely,
-Anthony Garcia
agarcia@neosoft.com

P.S.  When you have some free time, look up a document known as the
"Bill of Rights", and review the sections titled "First Amendment" and
"Fourth Amendment".





