From: Justin Burke <jburke@alt255.com>
Date: Thu, 3 Apr 1997 19:42:27 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: (fwd) Re: Interesting crypto news (fwd)
Message-ID: <Pine.LNX.3.95.970403194140.4054B-100000@tangent>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: seward@netcom.ca (John Savard)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.politics.org.nsa
Subject: Re: Interesting crypto news
Date: Thu, 03 Apr 1997 20:05:44 GMT

NEVADA (Reuter) --
Researchers today announced a breakthrough in quantum computing
which will greatly ease the creation of computing engines containing
quantum gates constructed from atomic traps.  Previously this was
thought to be an extremely difficult task, but thanks to some
astounding new breakthroughs by scientists at Lab 13, a previously
unknown research division at Nellis AFB in Nevada, the construction of
advanced quantum computers should now become routine.  "An initial
consignment of 3 acres of quantum computers has already been shipped
to a government agency, and we expect to begin shipping products to
other organisations within the next few years" said an Air Force
spokesperson.  

WASHINGTON (Reuter) --
In a surprise move, the Clinton administration today announced moves
to lift restrictions on the export of strong encryption technology.
For years the government has argued that it needs the ability to crack
strong encryption to thwart the Soviets, and then after they went
away, to catch criminals and terrorists.  The new move to allow the
free export of encryption has suprised the industry.  "We're
surprised" said a Microsoft spokesperson who asked to remain
anonymous.  Law enforcement officials were more forthcoming: "We are
now satisfied that we can handle any problems caused by the widespread
use of strong encryption" said FBI director Louis Freeh.

The articles were posted on March 31st...clearly a day too soon.
However, it's not to soon to think about designing ciphers that even
three acres of quantum computers would find it daunting to crack...

John Savard


--

Justin Burke <jburke@alt255.com>
To get my PGP key, send a message with the subject "get-pgp-key".





