From: lwjohnson@grill.sk.ca (Larry Johnson)
Date: Mon, 3 Feb 1997 20:06:30 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: PGP 2.1 Reasons
In-Reply-To: <199702022225.OAA03367@toad.com>
Message-ID: <32F6D1E4.19D6@grill.sk.ca>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Mark Henderson wrote:
 >
 > I've heard this rumour before.
 
 I didnt hear any rumor or anything. It just makes sense to me to be
 paranoid like Mr. Zimmerman said.
 Besides, my uncles friends write cryptagraphy for government guys
 and big businesses and they mostly use 2.1 and 2.3 instead of the
 stuff they write.
 
 They say the code for the new stuff (PGP) is ok but there are too
 many funny-stuff programs being written that mess with it but that
 nobody is bothering to write funny-stuff to mess with the old
 versions. They say the same thing about their own stuff that they
 are writing.
 
 > Of course, feel free not to trust what I say. You can look at the
 > source code yourself. But from what I've seen, you'll be better off
 > with the latest version.
 
 I cant read code real good, so i just listen to the best guys I know
 to know how paraniod to be.
 
 > The world is a strange and dangerous place.

 "No shit, Sherlock!"
 Thats what we say on my lists when people say stuff that nobody
 should forget. I think a lot of the cypherpunks forgot the stuff
 that they put at the end of their messages since they dont do it.
 
 Thanks for writing me. Your polite and helpful.

Mutatis Mutantdis wrote:> 
 Well, start thinking....

My uncle says I must be a cryptagrapher because I think in random
umbers. Then he laughs.

Marcus Butler wrote:
 If you are going to be that paranoid about things, you should not use
 anything you did not write yourself, afterall, even the cypherpunks 
 list could be an elaborate government scheme to lull people into using 
 PGP and similar technologies (JJ).

I dont write good code yet.
My uncle and his friends say that the government guys couldnt ever
do what they wanted with the cypherpunks because of the shit-disturbers
on the list but that the big business guys who want to own the list
to themselves will do what the government guys couldnt do.
(They ought to know cause some of them are the government guys who
watch the cypherpunks. I know cause they let me drink Scotch with
them.)





