From: nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)
Date: Sun, 6 Jul 1997 15:59:05 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Germany Wants A Rematch
Message-ID: <199707060745.JAA14587@basement.replay.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



To: 100566.2620@compuserve.com (German Embassy/Canada)
From: TruthMailer <tm@dev.null>
X-Mailer: WinSock Remailer Version ALPHA1.3B
X-Comments: -
X-Comments: "He who shits on the road will meet flies upon his return."
X-Comments: -
X-Comments: This message is NOT from a death camp volunteer. It was
X-Comments: sent via an automated anonymous remailer much as bullets
X-Comments: were sent by snipers in the French Resistance during
X-Comments: World War II.
X-Comments: -
X-Remailer-Setup: Maximum Message Size -- None

Subject: Germany Wants A Rematch

bennett wrote:
> On Fri, 4 Jul 1997, Jim  wrote:
> >          GERMANY PASSES WORLD'S FIRST CYBERSPACE LAW
> >
> > BONN, Germany (AP) -- Germany on Friday became the first country to
> > pass a law regulating the free-wheeling global electronic space
> > of the Internet.

>   Which cypherpunk said that he wouldn't go to a conference to get
> arrested for making a funny comment about a resurgence of fascism in
> Germany?

Dear Mr. & Ms. G. Embassy,
  Perhaps you've forgotten why freedom lovers kicked your ass in
"The Big One."
  Far be it from me to rain on your jackboot parade, but this time
the underground was put in place long before the war on freedom and
liberty was officially announced.

  XS4ALL's efforts to allow citizens to have the information needed
to interfere with train schedules to Auschwitz was just the tip of
the iceberg. Strong encryption and anonymous remailers are likewise
only visible symbols of the electronic weapons that have already 
been prepared in defense of free speech, privacy and freedom.
{Fool me once...}

  If you are of the mistaken notion that the rise of fascist limits
on freedom in now laughably democratic countries around the world
indicates that the world is now in alignment with the goals of a
"Fourth Reich"/"New World Order", then you are in for a very rude
awakening.
  The fact of the matter is that Germany is not only sucking on
hind-tit in terms of being far behind the designers of the internet
in controlling the worldwide flow of information, but all those
whose aim is to use information control to futher the purpose of
domination and oppression are sucking hind-tit to those who are
prepared to prevent this from coming to fruitation.
  Long before the "Internet" and the "World Wide Web" were being
publically touted as the "Information Highway" of the future, 
citizens throughout the Internet were being organized into small,
disparate cells for the purpose of educating and preparing them
to provide an underground resistance to the fascist designs of
those who fully intended from the start to use this technology
as a weapon against freedom and liberty.

  If you wish just the slightest taste of what I am speaking about,
then read "The Xenix Chainsaw Massacre" or "Webworld & The Mythical
Circle of Eunuchs" at http://bureau42.base.org
  If you would rather access it from a Soviet source, then I suggest
you try http://www.tigerteam.net/anarchy  
  Or you can find it in France, Australia, Great Britain, China,
Burma, Africa, South America, ad infinitum...as part of a trilogy
named "The True Story of the InterNet."

  If you want a small taste of what lies in wait for fascists in the
Unix Operating system, then study the archives of the "Cypherpunks"
mailing list.
  DOS/Windows? Find the "Secret Gates" mailing list (if you can).
  OS/2, Macintosh OS, Novelle...ask your father and mother, your sister
and brother, your best friend...they may well be among those who have
been preparing for decades to tear down the walls you are only now
preparing to build around freedom and privacy on the Internet.

  If you want a small taste of how your own tools are already being
turned against you, as weapons and munitions, then I suggest that
you try to find the hidden stego in the map of Germany (map2-2.gif)
at the URL for your German Embassy in Canada...
http://www.DocuWeb.ca/Germany

  If, on the other hand, you wish for a small taste of true freedom,
then I suggest that you resist falling prey to the fascist mindset
that others have already decided upon as your ultimate destiny, and
create your own underground resistance cell to fight against the rise
of censorship and the curtailment of freedom and liberty.
{If you haven't already...}

  When the Netherlands were recently liberated, many of the citizens
at XS4ALL were reported to be smoking American cigarettes, eating
Hershey's chocolate bars, and chewing gum.
  Go figure...

TruthMonger #709





