From: John Young <jya@pipeline.com>
Date: Sun, 27 Jul 1997 00:21:17 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: HIR_hear  Crypto Hearing Transcript
Message-ID: <1.5.4.32.19970726160006.006fc980@pop.pipeline.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Thanks to Declan we've digitized the declassified 64-page 
transcript of the House International Relations Committee closed
hearing on the SAFE bill, dated July 21, 1997, at which
FBI's Freeh, NSA's Crowell and BXA's Reinsch made statements 
on crypto policy, described the administration's dreams for 
worldwide GAK and noddled about how to shame unpatriotic 
industries -- Microsoft is cited as a prime disobedient, while 
Netscape, Reinsch smarms, has joined up. 

This is Rep. Gilman's committee, and the discussion aptly 
outlines the grounds for his "first amendment" to SAFE recently
posted here.
Our Web site is kaput this morning so for now we can only 
offer the 99K file by e-mail, HTML formatted.

If you want a copy send us e-mail with the subject: HIR_hear

We'll include a parallel 18 July letter to Members of Congress
on the same topic from AG Reno and seven top federal law 
enforcers, also provided by Well-connected Declan.

If your mail can't handle a 99K file, someday, maybe this weekend,
the two docs will be on our site at, respectively:

   http://jya.com/hir-hear.htm

   http://jya.com/crypto-law8.htm

Coda: Gilman represents, if you didn't know, my rathole
of the U.S. financial market. The transcript shows that he loved 
the G-men, wink-winked at them throughout the hearing, eyeing 
the propects for helpful legislation.

Reinsch brags that BXA and the banks are preparing an onslaught 
on the undisciplined world market, working with world leaders, as 
ever, caching real-time gold for select wise marketers, bribing with 
gov-biz deals across the political spectrum. Sez all the industry holdouts 
on GAK will come around when they see the Big Corps caving. 
Reinsch asserted that Microsoft is power behind Goodlatte's bill. 
Goodlatte didn't deny, just said MS is one of a horde. Hmm. 





