From: nobody@huge.cajones.com (Huge Cajones Remailer)
Date: Sun, 29 Jun 1997 19:06:00 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Dr. Netscape / Re: More about Netscape Bug finder
Message-ID: <199706291046.DAA21946@fat.doobie.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Lynne L. Harrison wrote:

> This reminded me to ask if anyone knows if, per their statement, Netscape
> intends to u/l a patch for the 3.x versions.  When I checked yesterday, I
> didn't see any reference to it.

  Why would you expect Netscape to make reference to the fact that
use of their browser leaves you open to violation of your privacy
and security? Corporations are not expected to show concern about
keeping their customers well-informed in regard to problems that 
arise with their product--they are expected to pretend, as much
as possible, that problems don't exist (even if it may result in
disastrous consequences for the customers who foolishly trust
the company to act with integrity and professionalism).

  Netscape software is my browser of choice. I like the product,
I like the company, and I like what I know of the people involved
in the company.
  Despite these facts, however, I recognize that reality is merely
a shallow reflection of classic Hollywood movies, and "Invasion
of the Body Snatchers" is currently playing at the Netscape cinema
complex.
  You may have already seen this movie, at your own corporate
cinema, so you know how the plot goes... You wake up one morning
and realize that behind the glazed eyes of your formerly human
co-workers, lurks the alien energy of a communal corporate soul.

  The company spokesperson (who has two cute kids and a dog that
are always a hit at the company picnic) has turned into an alien
life-form which is telling the press and public that the chemical
spill near the high-school has nothing to do with the hands that
are now growing out of the students' foreheads.
  The company president (who risked his job to support a decent
employee health-plan against the investor's wishes) begins to
speak about a "ten year study" to determine why 20% of the
company employees develop a rare form of cancer every year.
  Your best friend at the company changes the subject when you
mention the growing number of the company's customers who seem
to have an extra ear growing on their forearm. You can tell
that your best friend is looking into your eyes and trying to
discern if you are one of "them."

  A twenty-dollar street hooker will sometimes have time to join
you for coffee and a burger at the conclusion of a business
transaction, but a high-priced call-girl invariably recognizes
the danger of true personal contact adversely affecting future
cash flow.
  For the same reason, the corporate legal team would rather
discuss the responsibility for your failing health in a sterile
boardroom, than during dinner at your house with the whole
family present.

  It is probably in Netscape's best short-term financial interest
to downplay the full implications of the "bug" in their software,
as well as avoiding revealing the true reasons for this "bug"
existing in the first place. However, I would much rather visit
their website and see a big, red "Warning!!!" sign flashing at
the top, with a pointer to full information about the nature
and effect of the "bug," as well as disclosure of facts that
would allow me to judge what level of trust I should use in the
future in regard to the company and their products.
  After all, in terms of security, we can consider ourself to
be "sleeping" with those whose software we use. If it appears
that they are avoiding being fully honest about whether or not
they are practicing "safe software" in the best interests of
both themself and their "Johns," then perhaps we should think
about changing our "sleeping" habits.

  The bottom line is that it does not reflect well on Netscape
to have their customers and/or software users checking with the
members of mailing lists (and the checkout clerk at the local
QuickMart) to find out if there is any chance that they may be
able to use Netscape's product safely in the future.
  I did a quick review of the Netscape documentation and found
it gives no indication that users should inquire at the local
QuickMart for information about problems and bug fixes for
their products.

TruthMonger
~.~.~.~.~.~
DISCLAIMER:  I am not your hooker; you are not my John.
             Accordingly, the above is *NOT* illegal advice.






