From: justdoit@ultra-mail.com
Date: Wed, 12 Nov 1997 21:51:33 -0800 (PST)
To: justdoit@ultra-mail.com
Subject: DOUBLING  " your"  PROFITS!
Message-ID: <199711130551.VAA03433@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Hello Entrepreneurs,

ONLINE SUCCESS-THE DIRECT E-MAIL MLM THAT DOES IT ALL FOR YOU!

  If you have been looking at the exciting possibilities and INCOME that
  bulk e-mailing can bring to you, Online Success is the program for
  you, and it is a brand-new way to make money with 35million prospects
  online and more joining daily!

  We do ALL phases of bulk e-mailing for you. You collect the profits
  from your e-mail ads, and we do the work, month after month! Consider
  the benefits of having a professional bulk e-mailing firm working for
  you:

  ELIMINATE the hassles of lost dial-up ISP accounts, mail-bombs,
  undeliverable addresses, and expensive bulk e-mail software that
  doesn't perform as advertised! No more technical headaches and
  frustrations with so-called "bulk-friendly" providers that come and go
  every day.

  GET YOUR AD DELIVERED to 10,000 people every month! Best of all, we
  collect all the addresses, remove those we know that don't want e-mail
  ads, take out addresses like governments,schools,military and
  "flamers" BEFORE your mailing is ever sent! Your sales message only
  goes to buyers, not people who don't want bulk e-mail or should never
  be sent it!

  SIT BACK AND RECEIVE only prospects,sales, and further information
  responses. All mail is sent from Online Success, and all replies go
  directly to your account on our bomb-proof servers. We take out what
  you DON'T want: the flames,remove requests,and counter-offers, then
  send  YOU the responses that lead to profit!

  GET PAID by Online Success a very nice 50% commission for those you
  refer to our complete bulk e-mail services! Two ways to earn money:
  the results from your own 10,000 e-mails every month, and anyone you
  sponsor into the Online Success MLM program!

  NO GIMMICKS OR CATCHES to slow you down! Your ad runs completely by
  itself, and you are allowed up to 200 lines to promote your business
  or service with the monthly 10,000 e-mails. Say GOODBYE to
  fly-by-night companies or silly pyramid schemes......Online Success is
  a PROFESSIONAL organization consisting of 10 bulk e-mailing experts
  that are dedicated to helping you turn the Internet into your personal
  gold mine!

  For the exciting full details on this one and only Direct E-Mail MLM,
  see the Online Success company's web site at:

  Very Important Your Sponsers ID# 109, you will need to put it on the 
  application form.

  http://www.online-group.com

  if the above site is too busy, the exact site is also at:

  http://www.online-success.com

    P.S. Join NOW and get a MONTH of e-mails for FREE! You'll receive
  20,000 e-mails instead of 10,000, potentially DOUBLING your profits!
  Hurry, this offer from Online Success is for a limited time. Make sure
  you do not miss this new and exciting opportunity that will take the
  Internet by storm!

  
  To be removed from any future mailings from our company and many
  others, please reply with REMOVE as the subject.





