From: 47574096@microsoft.com
Date: Wed, 28 May 1997 23:25:18 -0700 (PDT)
To: scholar@archaeology.com
Subject: Mysteries of the Bible - Live on Tuesdays on the Web
Message-ID: <144523806421342786@scholarship.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



****** NOTE: There is no cost to enroll in this program. 
To participate and for further information please 
reply with the word "yes" in the subject line. ******


              A N N O U N C E M E N T

      Live on the Internet every Tuesday Night

   "Mysteries of the Bible Revealed and Resolved"

Contrary to the popular opinion created by Time and
Newsweek, every historical event in the Tanakh can be found
in the archaeological and historical records of the Near
East when our revised chronology is taken into account.

All events from Sodom and Gomorrah, through the captivity
in Egypt, the subsequent conquest of the land of Canaan to
the story of Esther will be presented in its archaeological
and historical context and the Biblical account shown to be
completely accurate.

Every Tuesday night, one topic will be presented live on
the Internet starting in the next few days with visuals,
expert interaction and debate by all who wish to be
involved. Each topic will be presented to enable the widest
possible audience to understand and participate. Moderated
by experts in each field.

Please inform all your friends and ask them to send their
e-mail address to:

bible@primesolution.com

for ongoing information.

Some topics to be covered include:

Creation vs. Evolution
Codes in the Torah.
Sodom & Gomorrah: 1.5 million bodies found!
The Famines of the Patriarchs - In Egyptian Records!
The Pyramids and The Sphinx, tombs or .......?
Kabbalah.
Who was the Pharaoh of the Exodus?
Dan, Dan, The Travelling Man
The Hyksos/The Israelites.
The Jericho Story: The Bible and the Archaeology match
at last.
The City of David found.
Solomon's Family - a son in Egypt!
Raiders of the Lost Ark: Found.
Hear Oh Israel, Where Oh Israel?...The Lost tribes...found.
Ezra and The Great Assembly?
The Aleph-Bais, alphabet or Holy Language?
Esther the truth at last.
The Dead Sea Scrolls, a mystery solved.
The Messiah in Prophesy and Reality.
The Times of the End.
etc.etc.etc.

Please note that the focus of this program is scholarly
rather than religious.






