From: nobody@huge.cajones.com (Huge Cajones Remailer)
Date: Tue, 28 Jan 1997 13:17:17 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Trolling with Dale (a bite)
Message-ID: <199701281448.GAA02231@mailmasher.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Date: Sat, 25 Jan 1997
From: Dale Thorn <dthorn@gte.net>
Subject: Re: overview.htm (fwd)

Dale Thorn hopelessly wrote:

>Let's be realistic about how AIDS is acquired.

Yes, Dale, let's 

>AIDS, OTOH, is likely to be a development from years of  1) Contact >with germs, chemicals, food additives, antibiotics other medical >treatments, sexual contact, etc. and 2) Immune-suppressing activities >such as lack of sleep and exercise, anxiety and stress, and so on.

Sounds reasonable to me, especially contact with germs (Who says "germs?"), and sexual contact. Take it on the road, Dale. 

>It seems to me that "proof" of someone acquiring AIDS from one stab
>with a contaminated needle is a very nebulous thing. As far as nurses
>go, the contact I've had with many of them tells me they are also
>(on average) drug users extraordinaire.

Yes, nebulous! Extraordinaire (on average), certainly.

At the risk of being offed by the moderator, I do believe that Dale is masturbating when he writes nonsense such as this. Perhaps "masterbating" as opposed to j.o. will pass muster.

Dale makes an excellent case for having a moderated list right here. What do his nutball beyond-the-fringe remarks have to do with crypto, privacy, security? Cripes, in the old days even an _accurate_ off-list remark would open a blast furnace of condemnation, a la Jim B.

If the list won't moderate itself to "guide" the Dale's, it DESERVES to be moderated. 

He's gotta be trolling to keep it hard. (Dangerous ground here!) Read "erect" for "keep it hard."

I suggest even (even!) "Dr.Dimitri Vulis KOTM" would disavow this pseudo-scientific nonsense regardless of his stated feelings toward homosexuals which I do not share but, nevertheless, believe may be aired.

Step up, Doc.

P.S. Does tripe such as Dale's latest make the mod list?




