From: Toto <toto@sk.sympatico.ca>
Date: Mon, 8 Dec 1997 22:14:47 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: CypherPunk Post of the Century [WAS: Get your hand off that <delete> button. Now!] [WAS: It's beginning to look a lot like...Donald?]
Message-ID: <348BFD7B.136A@sk.sympatico.ca>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



::
Anon-To: isthisamistakeoratrick@theshadow.nose

Nobody said:
{Honest! Nobody said it, so I made it up and added quote marks so I
 wouldn't look like I was responding to my own post. If you'll check
 the archives, you'll find even Tim May _didn't_ say the following:}

> I have refused to vote Republican for President ever since their
> unconscionable travesty wherein they dropped the superior candidate,
> the monkey, and ran Ronnie RayGuns for the position.
> The die (no pun intended) has been set for the next Presidential
> election, with Clinton being politically assassinated, and Gore
> getting Clinton all over him (as opposed to vice-versa in a physical
> assassination).
> I have already made my quadra-annual vow not to vote for Donald Duck
> for President again, but the muckers in power just won't give me a
> reasonable option.
> Oh, well. At least I can still say I'm an animal rights activist.

  FREEZE! Get your finger off of that <Delete> button, and slowly
back away from the keyboard...

  After subjecting the subscribers to the CypherPukes and Flight-from-
Censorship lists to multiple spams of an Eldridge cleaverly disguised
and disgusting on-topic post, I thought it would be appropriate to
make amends by wrapping myself in the state flag with the python on
it and writing "The History of the Present : A CypherPunk Perspective."
{Originally titled, "Everything You Wanted To Know About Freedom and
 Privacy, But Were Imprisoned For Asking."}

  First, allow me to point out that those who believe my disclaimers
that my posts are meaningless may possibly be even bigger fools than
those who believe list posts which claim to be packed with meaning.
  It's a tough call...
  There are list subscribers who provide spoon-fed information for
those who are busy and important and don't have time to think
(executive sheeple?), but (Young and Hettinga both being classical 
examples) the pressure of faking sanity eventually gets to them
and they snap into an acid-flashback condition that results in
posts containing existential poetry or advertisements for grits.
  I, on the other hand, help balance the lists by beginning at a
point of total blathering, and work my way slowly toward sanity
and reason. The fact that I rarely succeed at this indicates to
me that my posts are usually not long enough to complete the
process, so I will endeavor to ramble on endlessly in this missive,
for the eventual benefit of the person who is still reading this
post. (Me?)

AN INFOWAR FAIRY TALE: Ode to Bianca
Once upon time there was a woman with breasts so beautiful that
men would try to grab them at every opportunity, with only an
honored few being allowed to touch them (as a result of recognizing
that she had an equally beautiful brain).
The woman worked in a computer industry dominated by young men who had
spent so much time cloistered among their machines that they did not
know much about humans, and almost nothing about women, including the
fact that women are all witches.
Thus, the beautiful witch was able to trick the owners of protruding 
hardware into exposing their secret things to her, so that she was able
to follow the bytes as they metamorphisized into software. 
These men were powerful lions of the computer industry, drawing their 
great strength from their long mane-frames, little suspecting that a 
female systems analyst, with a heritage that taught her how to use 
scissors to cut efficiently and shape the results into a new form of 
clothing, might cut off the long locks from which they drew their 
strength, while they were sleeping, and weave them into a wig of many 
colors, enabling her to let down her hair, thus allowing her secret 
lovers  to climb up to the tower of the computer master's castle.

THE REQUISITE 'MORAL OF THE STORY':
'Tit men' are unlikely to notice if Lady Godiva is riding a Trojan
(pardon the pun) Horse.

"Am I a Freeh, dreaming I am a Zimmermann, or Zimmermann, dreaming
 I am Freeh?"
     ~ Phil Dunkelberger, 
       General Manager, 
       Total Nework Security Division,
       Network Associates

"As long as we have Kim Philby defending our country, Communist
 Americans can sleep safely at night."
     ~ J. Eggbert Hoover

"Be afraid. Be very afraid..."
     ~ Huge Cajones, 
       Addressing the 'Global Society of Unelected Secret Committees'

"Why The Government Wants Our Guns"  by John Young
-----------------------------------
http://www3.phillynews.com/packages/somalia/nov16/rang16.asp

"Why The Government Wants Our Keys"  by Tim C. May
-----------------------------------
The Feds have shown their hand: they want a ban on domestic cryptography

"Why Privacy is Dangerous in the Hands of Non-Chinese-Communist
 American Citizens Who Don't Make Major Campaign Contributions"
---------------------------------------------------------------
             From: softwar@us.net (SOFTWAR)
One example of Reno's conflict is the Clinton China Crypto Scam.
It was Reno's Justice Anti-Trust Division that authorized the
merger of a major company backed by a big donor to the DNC.  The
companies, RSA and Security Dynamics, sought the merger in 1996
just after RSA Chairman James Bidzos signed a memo of
understanding to perform "encryption research" with China.  The
donor, Sanford Robertson, paid $100,000 to the DNC just prior to
the merger. 
Of course, Mr. Robertson's investment firm made a cool two million
dollars on the merger deal, spurred in part by the lucrative
RSA contract with the PRC.

Pro-Crypto-Export Bumper-sticker:
"Export Free Speech and Privacy, Not Jobs!"

Anti-Domestic-Crypto Bumpersticker:
"Free Speech and Privacy Kill Molested Children With Terrorist Bombs."

  It's comforting to know that my right to speak freely and privately
in Mandarin Chinese is not being abridged...
  It's discomforting to realize that George Orwell was an optomist...

  Anybody notice that PGP 5+ 'offers' to upload your newly created
key _before_ it adds it to your keyring? 
  Everybody realize that 'VoluMandatory Offer' == 'Requirement'?
Anybody doubt the future of key generation <--> key registration?

  My point?
  Those who wish to 'fight-censorship' had better be prepared to start
fighting 'dirty'...as well as fighting 'underground'.
  If you think I'm kidding, reflect for a moment on why the Chinese
Communists are being allowed increasing access to strong encryption
while censorship fighting CypherPunks are becoming subject to an
increasing number of laws restricting domestic strong encryption.
  i.e. - The Chinese Communists do not fit the profile of domestic
terrorists, as reported recently on the list--they don't quote the
Constitution and Bill of Rights and speak out against big government.

The Bottom Line:
Big Brother is going Global. The PowerMongers are not just dividing
up the financial spoils among themselves, they are also beginning
to divide up the humans and human rights among themselves.

You can already be imprisoned in Alabama for your web site in Utah.
It will not be long before you can be imprisoned in Germany for
your web site in Alabama.

The government is building their backdoors. Individuals who value
their freedom and privacy need to do the same. The government is
arming themselves with meatspace and cyberspace weaponry. Ibid.

Don't be alarmed...be armed!
Be very armed...

Toto
~~~~
"The Xenix Chainsaw Massacre"
http://bureau42.base.org/public/xenix
"WebWorld & the Mythical Circle of Eunuchs"
http://bureau42.base.org/public/webworld
"InfoWar"
http://bureau42.base.org/public/infowar3
"The Final Frontier"
http://www3.sk.sympatico.ca/carljohn
"God's Canadian Hate Page"
http://www3.sk.sympatico.ca/carljohn/godhate/godhate.htm





