From: nobody@huge.cajones.com (Huge Cajones Remailer)
Date: Sun, 13 Apr 1997 20:06:15 -0700 (PDT)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Bombing Denver? / Or: How Capt. Button Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb
Message-ID: <199704140306.UAA02271@fat.doobie.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


The story thus far:
  An United States A-10 warplane on a live bombing run breaks formation
and spends the next hour flying toward Colorado.
  Just short of Vail, it changes course, headed toward Denver, and then
shortly thereafter changes direction, heading south, only to reverse
its course, and once again head toward Denver/Vail.

  During this whole time, the Air Force contends that no radio contact
was made, nor did they know where the plane was.
  They offer no explaination except an extremely weak claim that perhaps
the pilot was suicidal or stressed.

  The bottom line is that the media seems to be totally ignoring the
fact that even the military's shakey explaination of these events
suggests that the American public may have been in great danger from
a mentally unbalanced Air Force pilot in control of a war-machine
capable of creating mass destruction upon an American city.

  Even the least bit of scrutiny of the trail followed by the A-10
suggests a pilot who had a destination in mind, had to take evasive
action upon nearing his target, and then doubled back toward his
original target.
  And the best explaination that the military can provide is that a
U.S. warplane capable of doing major damage to a U.S. city just flew
around for over an hour, with no way for the military to prevent it
from bombing our citizens.
  The military tells us that a warplane approached some of the most
sensitive military installations in the country, without being noticed
or intercepted.

  The fact is, the military is in a no-win situation, whether they
reveal that U.S. citizens were potentially endangered by the military's
lack of control over U.S. warplanes, or reveal that they were forced to
intercept and shoot down a U.S. warplane intending to attack a U.S.
populated area.

  I have no doubt that the military, given time, will come up with a
cover story which contains "plausibal deniability," etc., etc.
  The big mystery is why the media seems incapable of even raising
questions probing at the obvious holes in the government's irrational
explainations of this affair.

TruthMonger
http://cnn.com

-- 
Toto
"The Xenix Chainsaw Massacre"
http://bureau42.base.org/public/xenix/xenbody.html





