From: Theodor.SCHLICKMANN@bxl.dg13.cec.be
Date: Mon, 12 May 1997 21:59:31 +0800
To: <cypherpunks@algebra.com>
Subject: Copy of: UK TTP Paper - For Your Information
Message-ID: <WIN2359-970512134423-1E44*/G=Theodor/S=SCHLICKMANN/OU=BXL/O=DG13/PRMD=CEC/ADMD=RTT/C=BE/@MHS>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: message/rfc822


To: Joep.VAN-DER-VEER@DG15.cec.be, Theodor.SCHLICKMANN@BXL.DG13.cec.be,   Konstantinos.PAPANIKOLAOU@BXL.DG13.cec.be,   Christine.SOTTONG-MICAS@DG15.cec.be, Detlef.ECKERT@BXL.DG13.cec.be,   Andrea.SERVIDA@DG3.cec.be, Richard.SWETENHAM@LUX.DG13.cec.be,   Telmo.BALTAZAR@SG.cec.be, Giuseppe.CASELLA@DG3.cec.be
Subject: UK TTP Paper - For Your Information
From: David.HERSON@BXL.DG13.cec.be

-----Original Message-----
From:   Hendon David
Sent:   Friday, May 09, 1997 3:06 PM
To:     Non Receipt Notification Requested; Non Receipt Notification Requested
Subject:        Open Reply to Charles Lindsey's Open Letter to the DTI

cc Brian Gladman - please post to UKCrypto

Dear Mr Lindsey


OPEN REPLY TO THE "OPEN LETTER TO DTI" ON THE TTP CONSULTATION PAPER

First of all let me thank you for your letter of 24 April on the DTI 
Consultation Document, and also apologise for this rather late reply.  As 
you can imagine the last couple of weeks have been rather busy for 
Whitehall Departments.
I am glad you wrote, as it gives me an opportunity to clarify a number of 
issues which have arisen in both the various Usenet newsgroups and also in 
the responses we have received to the Consultation Document.  Let me first 
set the Consultation Document in context.
The Document, as the Introduction to it hopefully made clear, is an outline 
of how the previous Government's policy might be implemented.  It  follows 
on from the announcement last June on the provision of encryption services. 
  Whilst drawing up the Document we took careful notice of the various 
reactions we had received to that announcement. Unfortunately, there were 
not many.  Since the Consultation Document was published, a new Government 
has been elected.  Ministers have not yet had the opportunity to consider 
this subject.  It therefore follows that what is said below represents only 
the current view of officials from DTI and other Government Departments.
I will take your questions in order:
1.      Authentication of public keys by private individuals:

Of all the issues you raise this has perhaps caused the most concern to 
readers of the Consultation Document.  So let me confirm the position we 
take.  We do not have any intention to impose licensing conditions on 
individuals who through whatever action, certify the public keys of another 
individual through the basis of personal knowledge or friendship.  It 
would, however, be possible (and this is why the Paper is perhaps ambiguous 
on this point) for an individual (as opposed to an organisation) to carry 
out a certification process as a service using knowledge (to guarantee 
authenticity) gained by conventional means (such as passports etc).  It 
would also be possible for an individual to systematically certify the keys 
of a large number of individuals through "hearsay" knowledge.  Such 
arrangements, we believe, should be subject to licensing.
2.      Requirement to escrow private keys:

Again this is an issue which has been commented on frequently in the 
Newsgroups.  As further discussed in the answer to question 4, we can 
confirm that we do not propose that the user be required to escrow his 
private signature key (however generated) with a TTP.  In addition a user 
is clearly at liberty to generate his own key pair for confidentiality; in 
such circumstances we are not requiring the private key, of this pair, to 
be located with a TTP.  If, however, the TTP either generates the 
confidentiality key pair for a user,  or, for example, certifies a 
self-generated public key for confidentiality, then escrow of the 
associated private key would be required under our proposals.  Everyone 
should recognise that this is a compromise under which we acknowledge that 
a proportion of confidentiality keys will not be accessible via the warrant 
process because they have not been escrowed.

3.      Freedom to publish keys and certificates:

We can confirm that the proposals do not seek to licence an individual or 
organisation that simply provides a location where others' public key 
certificates or public keys can be published.   This, however, is on the 
understanding that the individual, or organisations do not (themselves) 
take steps, or provide a facility for others, to authenticate that public 
key or associated certificate.
4.      Exemption of signature-only private keys from disclosure under warrant:

You have correctly identified this question as going to the heart of the 
"legal access" proposals we have made.  And of course you are right in 
identifying the need for the Government to explain how its policy 
objectives are to be met in this area.  But we have been entirely 
consistent in pointing out, both in the Consultation Document and in other 
public fora, that private keys for signature play no part in the law 
enforcement elements of these proposals. It would be completely wrong and 
counter-productive to law enforcement objectives for the authorities to 
have the capability to interfere with the integrity or authenticity of a 
communication.
You invite a technical and detailed explanation of how we intend to cope 
with the ability of the RSA algorithm (and others) to issue a key pair that 
can be used both to ensure the integrity and confidentiality of a message. 
 I think the answer, at least at this stage, is that there probably is no 
such technical method (since we don't intend to restrict the choice of 
algorithm) to prevent this.   In terms of procedure, however, I think there 
is a clear distinction between the use of a key-pair for confidentiality as 
opposed to signing.   As we understand the issue it is a requirement (or at 
least accepted practice) that the public key certificate identifies the 
purpose for which it is to be used.   In other words the TTP (acting as a 
certification authority) will certify the public key, of an individual, for 
a particular purpose.  Therefore if it certifies a public key for signature 
it would not require the deposit of the associated private key;  while if 
it certified a key for confidentiality then it would.   It follows, I 
believe, that  if a user then used a "signature" key for confidentiality it 
would be doing so outside of the terms of the certificate.  It would 
therefore be unwise, in normal circumstances, for the user to do this as it 
would mislead his potential counterparts.  Now I appreciate that such a 
scenario could allow the sender and receiver (both using certified 
signature keys) to use the TTP network for encryption purposes without the 
possibility of key-recovery.  This is, therefore, clearly something we 
would need to look at carefully.   But in many respects, I would argue, it 
is little different from two users using encryption outwith the TTP network 
entirely (eg PGP); a scenario we accept will take place whatever we wish or 
do.
I trust the above is helpful to you.  I am sure it has not answered all of 
your questions or even fully the ones you posed.  There is a long way to go 
yet.   We will, as indicated, ensure that a summary of the responses we 
receive is published after the period of consultation finishes.  By the 
way, the consultation period ends on 31 May.  I have seen some speculation 
on the Internet that comments should be sent well ahead of this date to be 
considered by DTI.  This is not the case.  All responses, email or letter, 
sent on or before the 31 May will be considered.

Yours sincerely
David Hendon
Communications & Information Industries Directorate
DTI
9 May 97






