From: "D.Reynolds" <admin@gw.mailmaster.com>
Date: Tue, 12 Aug 1997 09:11:54 +0800
To: <cypher@infinity.nus.sg>
Subject: Register Your Web Site To Over 590 Search Engines "Instantly" FREE DOWNLOAD
Message-ID: <19970811194440.01a0bb55.in@mailmaster.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


If you would like to be removed from our mailing list please
reply to: remove@gw.mailmaster.com

Register Your Web Site To Over 590 Search Engines "Instantly". FREE DOWNLOAD.


  I would like to inform you about an exciting new award winning
product that could both, save you countless hours, and increase
your exposure on the Internet immeasurably! Known as the
Submission Wizard, our program offers web users, such as you
yourself, the ability to automatically submit your site to
over 590 search engines in just one session .
Select from different categories, even countries, the choice is yours.

The submission process is very simple, efficient, and most
importantly fast. All you do is provide standard site
information i.e. site name, address, description,
and a few well chosen keywords, the Submission Wizard
takes this information changes it into the format
required by each different engine, and registers you
web site. It's that simple!

In addition, the Wizard's database of search engines and
directories is constantly being updated every week,
thus giving your site fresh and relevant exposure. Also,
the Wizard allows you to register multiple URL's.

Just imagine the possibilities! Take charge of your web
exposure, try out the Submission Wizard demo FREE by
following the provided hyperlink. We know you'll be as
excited about it as much as we are!

Want to be #1 on the search engines, check out our web page we
will show how to do it with our new publication.

http://www.submissions.com/demo.html

NOTE: If you are using an Apple platform you will need windows
emulation software.

Thank you for your time,
D.  Reynolds
Customer Services.









