From: owl@owlsnest.com
Date: Thu, 11 Sep 1997 01:19:35 +0800
To: cypherpunks@cyberpass.net
Subject: Is Your Web Site A Secret?
Message-ID: <199709101639.MAA04736@owlsnest.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



     Is your web site the best kept secret on the Internet?

     We'll promote it to 50 search engines and indexes for $85
     and complete the job in 2 business days.  Satisfaction is
     guaranteed!

If you have a great product, but are not getting many inquiries from
your Web site, you may not be adequately listed on the Web's search
engines and indexes.

Millions of viewers daily use these facilities to find the products
and services they are looking for.  But if your site is not listed, no
one will see it.

Listings on most of these services are free.  However, locating and
filling out the forms required to get a listing can take several days,
and most people just don't have the time to do it.

That is why we offer a web site promotion service.

WHAT'S THE DEAL?

We will submit your site to 50 indexes and search engines for $85.  We
will accept the return of this E-mail, with the form below filled out,
as an order.  We will bill you upon completion of the promotion.  Our
terms are net 15 days from date of invoice.  Satisfaction guaranteed!

HOW LONG WILL IT TAKE?

Generally, we complete the submissions within 48 hours of
receiving your order.  It can take any individual search engine or
index up to three weeks to process your submission, although most are
much faster.

WHAT SEARCH ENGINES AND INDEXES ARE INCLUDED IN THE
PROMOTION?

The list changes from time to time.  This is our current list:

Abaweb!, Alta Vista, Been There, BizWeb, Central Source Yellow Pages,
Enterpreneurs on the Web, Excite, Four11, Galaxy, I-Network I-Systems
Spiral Business Directory, I-World Web Pointer, Infoseek, Inktomi,
Innovator's Network Yellow Pages, Internet Mall, Jayde Online Directory,
Jumpcity, Jumper Hot Links, Linkmaster, Lycos, Magellan, Mega Mall,
Net-Happenings, Net Navigator, Net Mall, NTG's List, NYNEX Big Yellow,
One World Plaza, OnLine's WWWeb Index, Rex, Starting Point, Truenorth,
URL Tree, Virtual Lynx, Web Point, WebCentral, Web Venture Hotlist,
Webcrawler, Websurf, Win Mag/NetGuide Hotspots, WhatUSeek, Worldwide
Announce Archive, WWW Business Yellow Pages, World Wide Yellow Pages,
WWW Worm, YelloWWWeb.


HOW WILL I KNOW THAT YOU HAVE PROMOTED MY SITE?

When we have completed the promotion, we will send you an HTML
file as an attachment to your E-mail bill.  Save this file to your
disk, and view it through your Web browser.  It provides links to the
search engine we submitted your site to, plus any comments we received
from them when we did it.

ARE THERE ANY GUARANTEES?

We do not require prepayment.  Your satisfaction is guaranteed or
you don't pay the bill.

WHO IS OWL'S EYE PRODUCTIONS?

We are a web site promotion company located at:

   Owl's Eye Productions, Inc.
   260 E. Main Street
   Brewster, NY 10509
   Phone: (914) 278-4933
   Fax:     (914) 278-4507
   Email: owl@owlsnest.com


HOW DO I ORDER?

The easiest way to order is by e-mail.  Just hit the REPLY button on
your e-mail program and fill out the following information. (This
information will be posted to the search engines/indexes):

Your name: 
Company Name:
Address:
City:              State/Prov:     Zip/Postal Code: 
Telephone: 
Fax: 
Email address: 
URL:  http://
Site Title: 
Description (about 25 words): 
Key words (maximum of 25, in descending order of importance):

Proofs (Where shall we e-mail proofs): 

If  billing a different address, please complete the following:

Addressee: 
Company Name:
Address:
City:              State/Prov:     Zip/Postal Code: 
Telephone: 
Fax: 
Email address: 

We will bill via Email. (7519)

Terms:  By returning this document via Email, you agree as follows:
You have the authority to purchase this service on behalf of your
company.    Terms are net 15 days.  Accounts sent to collections will
be liable for collection costs.  You agree to protect and indemnify
Owl's Eye Productions, Inc. in any claim for libel, copyright
violations, plagiarism, or privacy and other suits or claims based on
the content or subject matter of  your site.

WHAT HAPPENS NEXT?

When we receive your order, we will input the information into
our system, and send you a proof.

After we process any corrections, we will run your promotion, capturing
any comments from search engines as we go.  We will incorporate these
into an HTML-formatted report to you, which we will attach to
your bill.
===Web Promotions=====Press Releases=====Link Exchanges=========
                 Owl's Eye Productions, Inc.
                   260 E. Main Street
                   Brewster, NY 10509
Ph: 914-278-4933  Fx: 914-278-4507  E-mail: owlseye@owlsnest.com





