From: John Young <jya@pipeline.com>
Date: Mon, 13 Oct 1997 02:52:36 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Stronghold
Message-ID: <1.5.4.32.19971012183512.006a9260@pop.pipeline.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Dimitri and Adam queried about me receiving a C2-lawyer 
letter to DV:

I didn't see the letter, either on cpunks unedited (where I remained
subscribed throughout the experiment and happily continue to be
despite genocidal warnings to desist). Nor did I get a copy directly 
from Dimitri as he claims to have sent as cc, which I doubt.

I suspect that if there is, or was, such a letter, it's either a fabrication 
of Dimitri himself, or a message he calculatedly sought so he could
flag wave it. A page from the book of secret agents.

Dimitri, Allah bless his carcass, is a learned and deft provocateur.

So the problem I've got with Dimitri's allegations is that he's 
demonstrated that he has the skills and godless urge to spoof,
spook and hound anybody who crosses him for Rasputin purposes 
not yet disclosed. Not that that's unusual hereabouts -- and who 
truly wants forgo comforting righteousness to confront an evil soul.

Insecure smart cards, those (we) highly miseducated warriors 
seeking warfare, in our ability to engender and prolong grievances 
against others and deny theirs of us, and draw people into our webs 
of revenge and expatiation, against enemies of imagination and 
passion.

In this DV, among many, is a fierce do-or-die competitor with, say,
Tim May, and I still have a hunch that the two (or many) are in 
cahoots (if only in like mindedness and bulldog tenacity), now, and 
maybe at the beginning of the grand  experiment of testing 
cypherpunkian elasticity with orchestrated provocateurism.
 
All of us stirring the witches brew with fake innocence and real
malice.

None of us are going to quietly give up addiction to bloodlust,
and will forever nightsweat insults and succumb to the urge to 
do vainglorious battle for vaporware honor.

Dementia, due, as ever, to miseducation, haywire ambition, 
filmic fantasies of glory and immortality, dampened only by
inevitable glandular wind-down.

Is this dustup really about the faults of likeminded C2 and 
Dimitri, or our shared need for diversion from dread of 
disappearance without a trace?

Billy Sunday





