From: bureau42 Anonymous Remailer <nobody@bureau42.ml.org>
Date: Thu, 30 Oct 1997 08:30:01 +0800
To: cypherpunks@Algebra.COM
Subject: Clinton's Bigger Gun Ban
Message-ID: <WWjzEOw02j8z4uCOXRf5RA==@bureau42.ml.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain




This is the intro from: http://www.nra.org/pub/ila/1997/97-10-24_faxalert_bigger_gun_ban

                   THE BIGGER CLINTON GUN BAN

     As reported in Wednesday's Special FAX Alert, the Clinton-
Gore Administration is planning to issue a directive to ban
certain types of foreign-made firearms from coming into this
country. We believe the White House will move to stop all
commerce in certain semi-automatic firearms that conform in every
way to the legal requirements set forth in both the Clinton Gun
Ban of 1994 and the 1989 import ban. Sources also suggest that
the directive will order the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and
Firearms to convene a study group to further narrow the scope of
firearms that qualify for importation under the "sporting
purposes" test. Given past action, a ban on all imported handguns
is not unlikely.

     In response to this directive, Congressman Bob Barr (R-Ga.)
held a press conference on Capitol Hill today with NRA Executive
Vice President Wayne LaPierre, NRA-ILA Executive Director Tanya
K. Metaksa, and other pro-Second Amendment congressmen,
including, Jim Barcia (D-Mich.), Pete Sessions (R-Tex.), Virgil
Goode (D-Va.), and Wes Watkins (R-Okla.)  "The Clinton
Administration is introducing the Bigger Clinton Gun Ban of 1998
- still another prohibition that bans more guns and shows more
hypocrisy than ever before," emphasized Mrs. Metaksa. She added,
"From the White House to Handgun Control, Inc., every gun ban
advocate in America is busy confirming everything NRA has ever
said about the 1994 gun ban." Basically, that it's an ineffective
cosmetic ban and that Clinton's efforts to ban guns in 1994 was
only a precursor to bigger, more restrictive bans.  All NRA
members are encouraged to contact your U.S. Representative at
(202)224-3121, to urge him to oppose the President's attempt to
ban more semi-automatic firearms -- semi-autos that his 1994 ban
previously ok'd!  In the meantime, NRA-ILA will continue to
update our members as we learn more about Clinton's latest attack
on America's law-abiding gun owners.





