From: TruthMonger <tm@dev.null>
Date: Thu, 9 Oct 1997 18:05:07 +0800
To: cnn.feedback@cnn.com
Subject: Where is _my_ blowjob?
Message-ID: <343C739A.72AA@dev.null>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Visited the CNN website earlier.

I wasn't at all surprised to see the factual errors and pandering to 
government spoon feeders for the main sources of many CNN stories.
After all, when Captial Hill'$ bottom feeders give away fify billion
dollars worth of valuable digital airwave bandwidth, I expect them to
ask for a few extras thrown in with the usual bribes and blow-jobs.

So it was no great surprise to find CNN still reporting the LIE that
the child-rapist/murderer in New Jersey had been a victim of a sexual
predator he had met on the InterNet, despite the fact that the news
services who *aren't* part of the fifty billion dollar giveaway of
taxpayer-citizen's public resources have been reporting the FACTS for
quite some time now.
Seems the guy bopping the murderer met him on a 1-900 line. 

Should I hold my breath waiting for the loud calls by reporters and
legislators for strict new laws taking away citizens' rights to
free speech on the phone systems of America, or would that be
dangerous to my health?

I know that CNN also has to fill in a few spaces between government
spoon-fed mind-control propaganda being fed to the citizens by the
recipients of the public largess, so that CNN is forced to throw in
a few quickie references to some other websites and information other
than that which comes directly out of the assholes of Lying Fuck Freeh
and Nazi Cunt Reno, such as:
Crime on the Superhighway 
http://www.geocities.com/CapitolHill/6647/
Investigator Lynn Zwicke

However, did somebody on the staff get a blow-job in return for
putting a supposed NEWS pointer to this schmuck's ADVERTISEMENT
for his or her PI business?
I certainly hope that this is the case, since someone should have gotten
*something* for opening CNN up to a lawsuit for providing a pointer to
an incompetent schmuck who is spreading extremely bad FUD (fear,
uncertainty, disinformation) in regard to child abuse and abusers,
in order to turn a quick buck.
I imagine that CNN has some fine-print disclaimer somewhere, explaining
that they are not responsible for the victims of incompetent and perhaps
unlicensed schmucks that CNN blesses with their own reputation capital
when directing people to supposed news/information sites, but I doubt
that the parent of an abused child or a falsely accused child abuse
victim is going to be to impressed, nonetheless, with CNN's lack of
integrity in not spending the time, effort and expense needed to 
make certain that they are not throwing their trusting readers into
the mouths of waiting hyenas.

I'm still waiting for the CNN story which replies to the DoJ and FBI
*HANDOUTS* detailing their list of 4,000 suspected pedophiles, with
a question as to whether some of the 800 LEA's present at the murder
of the religious group in Waco perhaps didn't have some extra time
on their hands that might have been better spent investigating all
of these alleged pedophiles, rather than pushing and shoving each
other to get pictures of burning children.
OK, I'm holding my breath, starting........NOW!

TruthMonger





