From: tcmay@got.net (Tim May)
Date: Thu, 13 Feb 1997 09:45:14 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Keep it Simple and the Cypherpunk Way
Message-ID: <199702131737.JAA17690@you.got.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


(A copy of this message has also been posted to the following newsgroups:
alt.cypherpunks)


At 11:42 AM -0500 2/13/97, Derek Atkins wrote:

>Unfortunately, the messages that make it through to the cypherpunks
>list have their MessageID changed when they get approved.  So,
>checking for duplicates by MessageID fails, given the current approval
>mechanism. :(
>
>I've informed Sandy of the problem, but he doesn't know how to
>preserve the original MessageIDs.

I will phrase my message here as respectfully as possible vis-a-vis the
goals of the moderation experiment. That is, I will only deal with one
aspect, the one of _costs_ of the moderation experiment.

To wit, the _costs_ of the moderation experiment--Sandy's time, our time
spent debating moderation, and now the issues raised by Michael Froomkin
and others about dealing with the chaos of multiple, overlapping
lists--greatly exceed the relatively small amount of effort it took anyone
to simply delete the insult posts, the ASCII art posts, etc.

I respectfully submit that the huge costs incurred on several parties have
cumulatively far exceeded the minor savings of not having a handful of the
'bot-generated insults of the day and some of the ASCII art generated. As
to the "comity" of the list, the moderation experiment has clearly had just
the opposite effect, predictably. (Imposing comity is rarely easy,
especially given an independent bunch of folks who are suspicious of
moderators screening their words for evidence of non-comity!). And the ill
will generated toward certain folks has been regrettable, and vastly more
costly than any minor savings in not having to see a few messages. 

"Keep it simple, stupid," the oft-quote KISS principle.

A moderation scheme--except perhaps those run very tightly a la Peter
Neumann's RISKS list--almost always bogs down into debates about the
moderation criteria, the acceptability of certain posts, and so on. Now we
see another effect: multiple lists and a confusing array of cross-posts,
mail-to-News gateways, News-to-mail gateways, etc.

The "Cypherpunks Way" is to encourage and empower people to filter their
own stuff, or to hire outside contractors to do it for them. Failing that,
to let them twist slowly in the wind. "Think of it as evolution in action."

The Cypherpunks Way is also the simplest system.

I hope this episode has reminded us of this lesson.

--Tim May

-- 
Boycott "Big Brother Inside" software!
We got computers, we're tapping phone lines, we know that that ain't allowed.
---------:---------:---------:---------:---------:---------:---------:----
Timothy C. May              | Crypto Anarchy: encryption, digital money,  
tcmay@got.net  408-728-0152 | anonymous networks, digital pseudonyms, zero
W.A.S.T.E.: Corralitos, CA  | knowledge, reputations, information markets, 
Licensed Ontologist         | black markets, collapse of governments.
"National borders aren't even speed bumps on the information superhighway."




