From: DataETRsch@aol.com
Date: Wed, 8 Jan 1997 19:17:17 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks-announce@toad.com
Subject: NEW RELEASE: Universal Data Cryptography Module V2.0
Message-ID: <970108211233_1123903607@emout06.mail.aol.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Hello,

Greetings! I am Jeremy K. Yu-Ramos, president of DataET Research, Data
Engineering Technologies. I am sending you this message to let you know that
DataET Research has recently initiated the distribution of UDCM, Universal
Data Cryptography Module. UDCM implements a revolutionarily new, extremely
advanced and sophisticated, digital data encryption algorithm named IMDMP,
Integrated Mathematical Data Manipulation and Positioning. Extensive research
shows that IMDMP is more advanced than DES, RSA, IDEA, and PGP.

UDCM (the IMDMP algorithm)...

o Is a royalty-free Windows DLL module featuring advanced cryptography.
o Contains more than 140 procedures and functions.
o Is a very cost-effective size of only 57 kilobytes.
o Implements the IMDMP encryption algorithm.
o Is more advanced than all of the industry standard encryption algorithms.
o Allows encryption keys as large as 256 bytes (2048 bits).
o Includes 18 sub-algorithms.
o Processes all forms of binary and ASCII files.
o Allows multiple encryption layer levels.
o Has absolutely no back-doors or magical keys.
o Does not store encryption keys in files.
o Processes files as large as 2,147,483,390 bytes.
o Has a 100% data preservation rating.
o Includes Y2K compliant time and date locking features.
o Has NCSC compliant data cleaning and wiping capabilities.
o Includes file specific unique encryption features.
o Includes file authentication guard features.
o Includes unique encryption signaturing features.
o Includes data importance and sensitivity stamping features.

UDCM can be accessed through programs developed with popular application and
database programming languages and environments such as: C, C++, Visual
Basic, PowerBuilder, Delphi, OOP Pascal, Turbo Pascal, SmallTalk, dBase,
Paradox, Access, Sybase, Oracle, etc. 

DataET Research has released a shareware version of UDCM named UDCM V2.0.

To download UDCM V2.0 for free, please go to:
http://members.aol.com/dataetrsch/udcm.html.

I hope you will consider applying UDCM in the software you develop. Thank-you
very much for your time.

Sincerely,

Jeremy K.Yu-Ramos
President
DataET Research
Data Engineering Technologies




