From: Global Web Builders <gwb@gwb.com.au>
Date: Fri, 28 Nov 1997 19:28:32 -0800 (PST)
To: (Recipient list suppressed)
Subject: How to overcome the apparent media boycott of Pauline Hanson's new biography
Message-ID: <1.5.4.16.19971129124650.111f2d48@mail.pronet.net.au>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Dear One Nation supporter in NSW,

It has come to our attention that the newly released authorised biography of
"Pauline, the Hanson Phenonenon" is apparently not being stocked by major
book sellers in most Australian states.

The big exception to the rule is Queensland where publicity and coverage was
given to the book launch and resulting sales in this state have been
excellent. This media coverage has simply not occured in the other states.

Media monitor show that only "The West Australian" and "The Canberra Times"
covered the book launch or any subsequent publicity of any note.

Reading between the lines News Limited, who dominate the print press, have
totally ignored the book.

We would ask you to contact your local major book seller to make a copy of
the book available in their store, book details as follows:

"Pauline, The Hanson Phenomenon" by Helen Dodd, publishers Boolarong Press,
Queensland ISBN #0646332171.

This action will result in the book being ordered by your local book store
who have the details on how to make orders for the book. If they say they do
not wish to order or stock the book please contact GWB with the details of
the bookstore.

It is important to note that the book store does not pay for the book as it
is on consignment and anything that they do not sell is returned to the
publisher so their is no financial cost to the book store.

We are confident that the book will be sold, based on extraordinary sales in
Queensland, but without the publicity the general public will not be aware
that the book is available. It appears that the mainstream media are
attempting to prevent the book reaching its potential audience Australia wide.

Your assistance in overcoming this apparent act of censorship would be
greatly appreciated.


GWB



Scott Balson.







