From: ballman@t-1net.com
Date: Mon, 16 Jun 1997 23:03:30 -0700 (PDT)
To: buy.balls@lower.prices
Subject: About Golf Balls
Message-ID: <>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain





=====> WE WANT YOU TO KNOW MORE ABOUT GOLF BALLS <=======

Lets Take Air For Example....

All of us know how tough it is to hit a good shot in windy conditions.
We assume therefore that air is just another natural element we must
out wit in order to score well.  In reality, AIR is what makes it
possible for us the hit the ball as far as we do.  The SPIN we impart
on a ball actually gives the ball lift, much like the wing on an
aircraft imparts lift.  This lift makes it possible for the ball to
stay airborne longer, enabling it to travel further.

In a vacuum, the average 250 yard drive would only travel about 180
yards.  A winged aircraft would not fly.

Air is your Friend....::))

Now here's one for you......Does a ball fly farther on a hot dry day
or cold wet day??....How about a hot humid day or a cold dry day ?

Let me know what you think.

Golfballs Unlimited USA reclaims balls from over 130 courses in 13 
states.  We stock over 50 varieties of balls.  If you're an average
player, by the time you have played 3 holes with a new ball, you are 
playing with a ball that's in much worse condition than our premium balls.

We offer the highest possible quality recycled balls available...at
direct pricing....HUGE SAVINGS over new balls.  Yes we have BALATAS.

Customer Satisfaction Is Absolutely Guaranteed.

If you would like a free catalog, just send me an email.

Click Here For Free Catalog

Regards,

Dana Jones
The Ballman

ps..I have worked carefully to see that this educational information goes only to
those who may have an interest. If you do not, please send me back message
with remove as the subject.  I will not mail you again.

Our Mission:  To Be The Best (As Determined By Our Customers)
Suppliers of Quality Recycled Golf Balls

BUY SELL TRADE






