From: extractor@impactmarketing.com
Date: Fri, 8 Aug 1997 14:36:00 -0700 (PDT)
To: extractor@impactmarketing.com
Subject: Never Pay for Advertising Again.
Message-ID: <199708082135.OAA12177@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Since you are doing business on the 'net, you know that properly
targeting your advertising messages can be pretty tough.  And banner
ads are still way too expensive

Instead of paying for "impressions" to a general audience, wouldn't
you rather know that you sent your message directly to the appropriate
audience?

US World News & Reports came out with an article on Monday May 12,
1997 finding that  "70% of Internet users don't mind receiving
commercial email messages - as long as they are targeted to their
personal interests"

I found that you are doing business on the net by using "Extractor
PRO" commercial email software.  You, too, can send commercial
e-mail to those who are interested in what you have to offer,
whatever it is - and it's so inexpensive!

Once you own the software, you can build your very own Highly Targeted 
Mailing List, then send your ad out to your targeted mailing list at the push 
of a button.


"You may never have to pay for other forms of advertising again!"

"HotWired" Magazine says, "Extractor Pro simplifies the process of
gathering and managing email addresses from AOL, Usenet, mailing
lists, and other public sources."  Feb. 11, 1997


Extractor PRO is loaded with targeting power, high-speed, a
user-friendly feel, Online Wizards, Smart Help and Awesome Video
Training via "CyberSchool".  No other commercial email software is as
easy to use and understand.  Extractor PRO really makes advertising
economical. 

Just check out the website - you'll be impressed!  With your order
before Aug. 15, 1997 you'll also receive a free website submission
service, World Launch - we'll submit your website to over 200 of the
hottest search engines, and also offer you 2000 Free Classified Sites
AND Free powerful tips to get your site noticed by the search engines!
 ($40 value)

For more information, simply point your WebBrowser to:

http://www.impactmarketing.com
http://www.e-offers.com

Click here to download our movie!
http://www.extractor.com/demo.exe

Thank you for your time.

------------------
To be removed from this business list, simply reply to this message
with the word, "Remove" in the subject heading, and Extractor PRO will
automatically remove you from the list.





