From: Dave Emery <die@die.com>
Date: Thu, 1 Jan 1998 09:41:24 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Location Escrow anyone ?
Message-ID: <19971231203351.54993@die.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



	This off another list ...

	More than fair use perhaps, but significant.

--------------------------------------------------------


Tracking of Swiss mobile phone users starts row

Copyright (c) 1997 Reuters 

ZURICH (December 28, 1997 4:12 p.m. EST http://www.nando.net) - Swiss
police have secretly tracked the whereabouts of mobile phone users via a
telephone company computer that records billions of movements going back
more than half a year, a Sunday newspaper reported.

The revelation in the SonntagsZeitung newspaper triggered objections from
politicians and the country's privacy ombudsman about high-tech snooping on
citizens who like the convenience of a mobile phone.

Officials from state telephone company Swisscom confirmed the practice, but
insisted information about mobile customers was only handed out on court
orders.

"Swisscom has stored data on the movements of more than a million mobile
phone users. It can call up the location of all its mobile subscribers down
to a few hundred meters and going back at least half a year," the paper
reported.

"When it has to, it can exactly reconstruct down to the minute who met
whom, where and for how long for a confidential tete-a-tete," it said.

Some 3,000 base stations across the country track the location of mobile
phones as soon as they are switched on, not just when customers are having
conversations, it said.

Prosecutors called the records a wealth of information that helped track
criminals' movements.

"This is a very efficient investigation tool," Renato Walti, an
investigating magistrate in Zurich who specialises in organised crime, was
quoted as telling the paper.

The paper said Swisscom and law-enforcement officials were reluctant to
discuss the records, which were supposed to be secret.

But it quoted Toni Stadelmann, head of Swisscom's mobile phone division, as
saying: "We release the movement profile of mobile telephone customers on a
judge's order."

SonntagsZeitung said there was no legal basis for storing such information.

"I am unaware of any law that would allow the preventative collection of
data for investigative purposes," it quoted Odilo Guntern, the federal
ombudsman for protecting individuals' privacy, as saying.

"Secretly collecting data is highly problematic," added Alexander
Tschaeppat, a judge and member of the lower house of parliament.

Copyright (c) 1997 Nando.net

-- 
	Dave Emery N1PRE,  die@die.com  DIE Consulting, Weston, Mass. 
PGP fingerprint = 2047/4D7B08D1 DE 6E E1 CC 1F 1D 96 E2  5D 27 BD B0 24 88 C3 18






