From: EFF <eff@dev.null>
Date: Wed, 30 Jul 1997 04:47:00 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Libertarians for whom Jim Bell tolls...
Message-ID: <199707292018.OAA12857@wombat.sk.sympatico.ca>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



-------Fwd: Private Email (Identities XY'ed)-------
Subject: Re: Libertarians for whom Jim Bell tolls...
   Date: Tue, 29 Jul 1997 11:32:11 -0800
   From: XXXXXXXX 
     To: YYYYYYYY

>>   "In the plea agreement, BELL also admitted that on March 16, 1997, he
>> conducted a chemical "stink bomb" attack on the IRS office in Vancouver,
>> Washington, using the noxious chemical mercaptan. ...

>  This is interesting, since they had no evidence that he did so.
>However, they managed to get him to "confess" by illegally holding
>without bond for crimes which they never intended to charge him with
>in the first place.
>  I hope that Jim's lawyer is suitably rewarded for his part in selling
>Jim down the river.

Nancy Lord has had a lot of success in cases like this, and was
interested
in helping Bell's public defender file briefs challenging a lot of the
IRS'
charges and behavior, on First Amendment grounds. She tells me the
public
defender never even returned her calls.

>>   "IRS Inspectors indicated that the mercaptan attack may have been linked
>> to the Feb. 20, 1997 seizure of BELL's vehicle by the IRS for unpaid taxes.

>  In effect, they are saying that since they didn't have any evidence
>against Jim for the crime that they wanted him to "pay" for, that they
>used the threat of major criminal charges to convince him to "confess"
>to the crime, and held him without bail to let him know that the Justice
>system is under the control of the IRS, and not the defendant.

More or less. The big fuss, and the reason for holding without bail, was
supposedly that his web postings constituted evidence he was planning to
assassinate IRS agents. Yet, curiously,  he was never charged with
anything
like "conspiracy to solicit murder." Instead, people go to jail for
years
for the equivalent of pouring skunk urine on someone's welcome mat, and
for
"using false SS numbers."

Funny, I thought the folks who gave us SS numbers swore they'd always be
confidential between us and our SS retirement fund manager, and would
"never be used as a national ID number." Since I'm sure the SocSec
Administration would never confirm or deny for the IRS Mr. Bell's REAL
SS
number, I wonder who they knew which ones were bogus?

Are we to believe SocSec has never made a mistake, and issued one person
two numbers?

Anyway, was Mr. Bell accused of using the bogus numbers to fraudulently
extort wrongful benefits from the SocSec Administration? Apparently not.
So. since money will be withheld from your paycheck no matter WHAT SS
number you file, the only possible "fraud" can have been to work
different
jobs under different numbers -- with no chance of ever collecting any
"benefits" from the "bogus" accounts. An odd kind of "fraud," that pays
money to the government with no hope of ever getting any back.

>Vin,
>  Did you know that the IRS used the information gleaned from Jim Bell's
>hard drive to send the "chilling" details of Jim Bell's plea agreement
>to the individuals and mailing lists he corresponded with?
>  Did you know that when he arrested, there were no Assassination Bot's
>in existence, and that there are now at least six prototypes currently
>in operation?
>
>  God Bless AmeriKa.
>
>XXYYZZMonger

Hi --

It would probably be considered (by overzealous pro-government
extremists)
a violation of some bogus new enactment if I proposed that it would be a
good idea for someone to widely and publicly post the names and home
addresses of every employee of the IRS ... and possible the FBI, DEA,
and
ATF, to boot (after all, those people have no problem accessing the
intimate details of OUR personal lives, on a moment's notice. We all
live
in more or less constant fear of THEIR midnight knock on the door.) So I
won't suggest that.  I don't suggest that. I hope no one ever does that.
And if anyone ever does, I CERTAINLY hope such lists are not widely
downloaded and disseminated.

X.Y.





