From: ulf@fitug.de (Ulf =?iso-8859-1?Q?M=F6ller?=)
Date: Thu, 3 Jul 1997 20:12:30 +0800
To: cypherpunks@Algebra.COM
Subject: urban environment visualization systems
Message-ID: <9707031205.AA68804@public.uni-hamburg.de>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



http://www.nttc.edu/solicitations/sbir/dod972/darpa972.txt

DARPA SB972-068           TITLE:   Multi-Platform  Real-Time  3-D Visualization 
                      System Urban Environments  and  3-D Terrain Imagery
KEY TECHNOLOGY AREA:  Computing and Software
OBJECTIVE:        Create a cross-platform (PC, Mac,  Sun,  SGI,  etc.) 
real-time 3-D visualization system capable of visualizing  ultra-high 
resolution urban environments immersed in global unlimited 3-D terrain imagery 
simultaneously.
DESCRIPTION: Most high performance visualization systems are currently limited 
to high-end graphics deskside work stations costing in excess of $100K. The 
low-cost of high performance dedicated graphics hardware for personal computers 
and low-end work stations has made it possible to create a cross-platform 
system that can visualize virtually infinite amounts of high-resolution data in 
real-time. Along with the enabling hardware, a highly integrated software 
system that can effectively utilize the hardware with advanced graphics and 
data handling technologies needs to be developed. Today, this capability only 
exists on costly, difficult to use, and inflexible high-end systems. An 
advanced system is required to: 
1) Visualize unlimited amounts of terrain and structure data in urban 
environments (e.g., large cities and military compounds containing complex 
structures) in real-time; 
2) Implement state-of-the-art rendering and data processing techniques to 
provide the best possible performance for all types of data; and, 
3) Run on a wide variety of systems ranging from high-end graphics work 
stations to standard PCs with dedicated graphics hardware.
         PHASE I: Define the visualization system to be developed, 
requirements, software architecture, high-level design, technical approaches, 
tradeoffs, and enhancements over current approaches and existing tools. 
Demonstrate proof-of-concepts on at least two different graphics platforms.
       PHASE II: Produce a prototype implementation of the system. Demonstrate 
capability on at least three different graphics platforms (high and low-end 
systems).
       PHASE III DUAL USE APPLICATIONS: The emergence of low-cost 3-D hardware 
for the PC platform has made practical the application of 3-D terrain and 
building visualization technology to address a variety of problems such as 
building physical security analysis (counterterrorism), urban planning, 
forestry management, geographic information systems, and architectural 
visualization. This program could greatly enhance the capability of businesses 
(located abroad or in the United States) and government agencies to conduct 
analysis of threats from terrorism or crime and to assist them in taking 
prudent measures to reduce their risks of terrorist or criminal attack. 
Portable visualization of urban settings enables any user to view their 
organization/businesses in a manner useful to identifying risks from bombs, 
sniping, or other security threats, and taking appropriate protective measures.





