From: John Gilmore <gnu@toad.com>
Date: Mon, 31 Mar 1997 16:28:04 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Bank for International Settlement (BIS) report on bitbux
Message-ID: <199704010028.QAA07461@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


From: Pete Yeatrakas <pyeatrakas@wespay.org>

For those of you interested in security of electronic money, you may
want to browse the Bank on International Settlement (BIS) page and read
a report issued in 1996.  BIS is the organization of G-10 central banks
(e.g., in the US, Federal Reserve Bank Board) who meet to discuss
international payments issues.  The excerpt below is the first paragraph
from http://www.bis.org/publ/cpss18.htm announcing the study of
"security of electronic money," available in pdf format. 

BIS 1996 annual report (http://www.bis.org/publ/cpss19.htm) also
provides detailed information about each country's payment system
(currency in circulation, number of ATMs and financial
institutions/branches, GDP, population - 1990 through 1995) and
concludes with a comparative analysis of those countries (with currency
compared in US dollars).  This is a valuable resource for the student of
European and US payment systems.
 (BIS home page is http://www.bis.org )
Best Regards,
Peter Yeatrakas


"Committee on Payment and Settlement Systems 
SECURITY OF ELECTRONIC MONEY
FOREWORD
In November 1995, the central bank Governors of the Group of Ten (G-10)
countries commissioned a series of studies on specific issues related to
electronic money, in view of the potential importance of this new form
of money and its implications for monetary policy, consumer protection
and payment systems. These studies were carried out by the Committee on
Payment and Settlement Systems (CPSS). For the examination of the
security aspects of electronic money schemes the CPSS sought the
assistance of the Group of Computer Experts, which established for
that purpose the Task Force on Security of Electronic Money, chaired by
Mr. Israel Sendrovic from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. At their
meeting in July 1996 the G-10 Governors discussed the various reports
that had been commissioned and agreed on the publication of the
present report on Security of Electronic Money. The report is not
necessarily intended to represent the official views of the Governors."




