From: CV Communications <response@quantcom.com>
Date: Thu, 23 Jan 1997 14:38:08 -0800 (PST)
To: "cwozniak@aol.com>
Subject: A Remarkable Income Opportunity!!
Message-ID: <199701232122.QAA01742@slade.cvcom.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


The following message has been brought to you by Quantum Communications.
If you would like advertising rates and information, send an email to info@quantcom.com
or visit our website http://www.quantcom.com
If you prefer NOT to receive promotional messages inthe future, send an email to 
remove@quantcom.com

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dear fellow entrepreneur,

This is a ONE TIME message, there's no need to "remove" your name . If
you'll take 60 seconds, we promise you a brief overview of a remarkable
income opportunity with no bull, no hype, and no fluff.

You're going to hear about what many people believe to be THE BEST income
opportunity on the planet today.  Bar none.  We like to think of this as THE
THINKING PERSON'S home based business. But you be the judge.

**OVER $300,000 in commissions being paid out DAILY, SIX DAYS PER WEEK!
**OVER $100,000,000 in SALES in their first 14 months of business! 
**STRATEGIC ALLIANCES with two multi Billion Dollar World Leaders
**FREE WEB SITE...SUPER SUPPORT TEAM...A TRUE GLOBAL INCOME     
OPPORTUNITY!!
** A LEGITIMATE HOME BASED BUSINESS FOR AS LITTLE AS $100 ONE TIME COST

There are THOUSANDS of people already earning $500 to $5,000 weekly.  And
much more.  Many people are earning over $50,000 monthly in less than 18
months.  Naturally, this is not typical income.  Maybe you're not a typical
entrepreneur.

The name of the company is Destiny Telecomm International. DTI is based in
Oakland, CA.  Destiny Telecomm is part of the multi trillion dollar market
of global telecommunications.  This industry is doubling every year world
wide.

DTI was launched July 4th, 1995. They are breaking all networking records.
They produced their first $100,000,000 in sales in just 14 months. No
network marketing company has ever come close to those numbers in over 50
years.

DTI is now just 18 months old and with over 480,000 independent reps. They
have now expanded to 31 countries. Their plans include over 100 countries.
Destiny is a debt free company and highly regarded by Dun & Bradstreet.

DTI owns their own 40,000 sf building and their own high-tech,
state-of-the-art LNX4000 phone switches.  Destiny has close to 300 full time
staff.  They offer customer service and enrollment services 24 hours per
day.

Their concept is simple and obviously very duplicatable. To become a
representative, you make a ONE TIME purchase of for as little as $100.  You
get a collectible, prepaid phone card with 5 hours of time on it. The card
allows you to place long distance calls from any touch tone phone to
anywhere in the world without the use of credit cards, coins or third party
billing.

You simply share this concept with a minimum of two people.  You are now
permanently qualified to receive commissions.  Naturally, your income will
grow faster the more you continue to share the program.  DTI pays
commissions SIX DAYS A WEEK on unlimited depth in your organization.  It can
literally go on forever!

There are NO FURTHER MONTHLY PURCHASE requirements nor is there is any
inventory to carry or monthly quotas.  There are some great additional
products and services that are optional such as pagers, custom designed
phone cards, discount residential or business service and low international
calling rates.

The RENAISSANCE SUCCESS TEAM is a passionate group of business people with
high aspirations.  We are committed to the SUCCESS of EVERY member of our
group.  We  provide the tools and support to get you off to a fast and
profitable start.  And we don't just get you started, we are with you ALL
THE WAY!

We know the Internet will be an enormous factor in the promotion of Destiny.
We have innovative marketing methods to help you build your income.  DTI is
a company with long term global vision.  THIS OPPORTUNITY IS STILL IN ITS
INFANCY!

There's going to be many, many millions of dollars earned with this
program.  There will be a tremendous opportunity to travel the world, first
class, marketing this program.  We're looking for people who still believe
in their dreams.  We're looking for people who are teachable and willing to
work.

This business is FOR REAL.  If you'll put in the time, this business can
provide you ALL THE MONEY you've ever dreamed of.  That's NOT a maybe, it's
doing just that for thousands of people. Do YOU really want financial
freedom?

To find out more about Destiny, the compensation program, their products and
services and the Destiny web site, E-MAIL OUR AUTO RESPONDER for an instant
package of information.  We'll also let you know  how the RENAISSANCE
SUCCESS TEAM works together as a support group.

Do NOT reply to this message that you're reading.  To get the information
package you must activate our AUTO RESPONDER at destiny@quantcom.com_for an 
instant
reply. 

Thank you.





