From: Global Web Builders <gwb@gwb.com.au>
Date: Wed, 17 Dec 1997 18:38:01 -0800 (PST)
To: (Recipient list suppressed)
Subject: Christmas greetings from Pauline Hanson
Message-ID: <1.5.4.16.19971218115821.2c9f5370@mail.pronet.net.au>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Dear Pauline Hanson's One Nation Supporter in NSW,

1997 has been an eventful year in Australian politics.

1997 will be remembered as the year when Australians at last said that they
had had enough.

Enough of the lies and deception churned out by the major political parties.

1997 will be remembered as the year that Pauline Hanson's One Nation grew
from a fledgling party launched in April to a major political force with a
branch network of over 200 branches.

A quite remarkable achievement. An achievement which could not have been
realised without the dedication and commitment of national director David
Ettridge and his Manly office team.

1997 will be remembered as a year of intimidation. Intimidation by
well-organised protesters with strong links to the Australian Labor Party.

The violence of these protesters against the Australian way of life - giving
everyone a 
'fair-go' and the media's blatantly biased reporting against One Nation
failed to destroy the will and desire of the people to support me.

1997 will be remembered as the year in which a few tried to cause a split in
the One Nation party. 

They knew that the media would report anything negative about the party. And
they did. No matter that in all cases it was just a handful of troublemakers
who tried to hijack the party for their own political gain.

They failed. 

Today One Nation is more than just a phenomenon it is a real living party.
It is made up of people like you and me. It is part of the political fabric
in Australia.

Looking ahead we will face many challenges together. We must continue to
fight for equality for all Australians. We must continue to fight to protect
our country from becoming a slave to the multinationals and international
bodies. 

During this Christmas break we all have the opportunity to look back and see
what we have achieved and to look forward to see what has still got to be
done in the coming years.

I wish you and your family all the best over Christmas and the New Year. God
bless and may all your dreams come true.


Pauline Hanson





