From: nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)
Date: Wed, 30 Jul 1997 18:17:30 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Government takeover of the gambling industry / Am I Psychic, or what...?
Message-ID: <199707301004.MAA20298@basement.replay.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Tim May wrote:
> It's the way of all governments. First denounce something, then co-opt it,
> then get rid of the competition.
> 
> But imagine how this might rebound to our favor: suppose NSA
> Microelectronics, Inc. finds itself limited in its sales prospects by the
> NSA policies limiting electronics companies...maybe NSA Microelectronics
> will point out to the DIRNSA that the nice flow of kickbacks to all senior
> NSA managers will come to a halt if NSA Microelectronics is not able to
> sell its crypto products domestically.

  I used to think I was psychic, since I predicted the fall of communism
in the Soviet Union (almost to the day). Later, after reading Tim's
tirade
against "magical thinking," I realized that I was just using common
sense.
  I realized that once "Pepsi" and "Burger King" had a vested interest
in
the "Red Menace" operating in the "Black," any fool who had the ability
to make 'i' increase in increments of 'two' could accurately predict how
long it would take for the Rockerfellers to notify the leaders of the
secret Zionist conspiracy that it was time to make a few changes.

  NSA Microelectronics will no doubt realize the value of using convict
labor to maximize the government's profits in their foray into the 
wonderful world of government usurpment of the free enterprise system.
  Since the government has always been less efficient than the forces
of free enterprise, we can expect that, "in the interests of national
security profits," more citizen-units will be required to become felons
"under an increasing number of laws."
  Not being a lawyer (although I played one at Jim Bell's trial), I 
cannot say for certain whether "suspicion of being Tim C. May" will be
a state crime or a federal crime. Nonetheless, I feel certain that 
Mr. May's experience and expertise will enhance the efficiency of our
convict-labor system to a level that will help move us toward a 
balanced budget (if we can take him alive).

  Although my tendencies toward "magical thinking" and observing life
through "Scotch-colored glasses" leads to my posts being somewhat 
rambling and incoherent, I can always count on the Philosopher Kings
(such as T.C.M.) on the CypherPunks list to remind me when it is time
to take my medication.
  I believe in reincarnation. I believe that if you live a corrupt,
sinful life, doing all manner of evil to your fellow men and women,
that you are reborn as either Jimmy Hoffa or Dr. Vulis.
  {There are those who believe that the above will result in your
being reborn as myself, but I cannot believe that any entity who
claims to be the Supreme Being could be that cruel.}

  In closing, I would like to remind the members of the CypherPunks
list that, "If God is Love, and Love is Blind, and Justice is Blind,
then Jim Bell's attorney is fucking Ray Charles."

TruthMonger





