From: nobody@replay.com (Anonymous)
Date: Tue, 7 Jan 1997 14:59:40 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Sandy is God...Listen to Him!
Message-ID: <199701072258.XAA06785@basement.replay.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

Don't understand all this issue about Sandy and John filtering the list.
Don't we want order and control? We need Sandy to decide whether our
articles should be read by others.

Sandy is our spokesman, our leader, our navigator. When he founded the
Cypherpunks group, he wanted ``order and control, ``and now he has been
forced to re-assume control of the group to put controls in place.

Hey, if Sandy and John say we have to stick to certain topics, well,
dammit, they are in control and we have to do what they want.

Sandy and John are our leaders. Forget this stuff about the Cypherpunks
list being a group seperate from toad.com. Forget this idea that John is
just the host of the list...he is actually the co-controlled. And we'd
better pay attention.

Why didn't Sandy and John just announce a new filtered list, like Blossom
has? Why make their control the default for the whole list, with the the
unfiltered list harder to subscribe to and eventually to go away
completely? Good questions!

Ask not the reasons for God's decissions. This is Sandy's list, and John's
machine, and if they say they know best what is a flame and what is not, I
say we should just take our medicine and learn to love their wise
decisions. If they say we can only write flames if they approve, OK. If
they say we must only write about libertarian topics, OK. If they reject
our messages without explanation, OK.

Sandy is our Leader. And anyone who doesn't respect our Leader should just
leave.

Bye

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.6.2

07dTgUBMs4Q8hvikii9febJAQEbrAQAmgwAeqSsi2qIkqakNRPCpwCwNnYudNop
zyxE2LueC+WuhugtLeyDDet+WgefE9X84F4qxn/QVB+tJAGbZzfCPO24shelX21k
mk80oevKqzcfAAzbB4tMtXe5gl6+zykExXjsx4J/KjMNPL0QAE490uvnKqus/a2H
0l2AU9k/Kp8=
=ix2B
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----




