From: blanc <blancw@cnw.com>
Date: Sun, 26 Jan 1997 13:47:38 -0800 (PST)
To: "'cypherpunks@toad.com>
Subject: RE: Fighting the cybercensor
Message-ID: <01BC0B90.0B78E600@king2-16.cnw.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


From:	Dr.Dimitri Vulis

However U.S.G. is able to say that people of Iraq or Lybia or Cuba should
not be permitted on the 'net. It also bombs Iraq and murders their 
civilians
in retaliation for something their governments supposedly did.
................................................................


The U.S.G. has many more resources than most of us to do these things, 
including equipment, cooperative troops, money, and recognition from other 
governments.   If other nations disagree with the U.S.G. they have the 
resources to discuss, bargain, negotiate, criticize, form alliances, take 
their chances and retaliate, etc.

These things are done on a level not accessible to the most of us.  All 
that we individuals have are access to telephone lines, computers, and 
modems.   Yet even as we speak the world is being "wired" with cables to 
further make this singular communication possible and open up avenues to 
non-government organized activities:   international corporations are se  
tting up offices, services, and correspondence wherever in the world they 
can find markets.   All this is happening even while the governments are 
complaining to each other about what their citizens are posting (tch, tch) 
and threatening to deprive each other of that privilege.

While governments and their True Believer citizens are dealing with each 
other on one level, the rest of the world is reorganizing itself into a 
different order of living and doing business.   They are sharing ideas and 
examining their concepts and beliefs, they are conducting a lot of their 
disagreements on the net (instead of physically against each other on the 
ground), opening up to a broader view of relationships between individuals, 
or to governments, or to religions, sexuality, etc.

The situation hasn't completely changed yet,  but it is in process.

    ..
Blanc





