From: nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)
Date: Fri, 10 Oct 1997 00:35:59 +0800
To: cypherpunks@cyberpass.net
Subject: Object code disassembly (was Re: [LONG, off-topic]] Interactive Programming)
Message-ID: <199710091614.SAA25567@basement.replay.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



> It worked.  After a few iterations of this I had all the entry points, and
> everything that didn't disassemble cleanly was outputted as hex data.
> 
> For fun, run objdump on a cleanly compiled unix binary... It makes it all
> look so easy... :)


Not quite that easy.

Awhile back I disassembled RealAudio because I was curious how their codec
worked.  Turns out it was not all that interesting and the codecs in
nautilus and speak freely are probably better.  But anyway....

Running objdump on the binary spit out ~800000 lines of code.  They
statically linked the whole thing, motif, c library, and all.  I'm not
sure what they compiled it with, the c-library they had in there didn't
look like any of the standard ones.

It disassembled fine, but 800k lines of assembler dump is not really all
that readable.  So I ended up doing it interactively, setting breakpoints
on the I/O operations and backtracing to find the coder.  The user
interface code tended to get in the way a lot.

The 1kb/s coder is very basic.  No predictor/corrector, and no redundancy
(eg lempel-ziv, rle) compression at all.  It's just a frequency/band coder
at 10 frames per second.  I guess thats so it can handle dropped frames.
No checksums at all.

The "28.8" codec is more sophisticated.  It appears to be a LPC and
compresses data into much larger blocks/packets.  I didn't look into it
too deeply because there are lots of other lpc coders available.

Shortly after this, they put out a new version 3.0, with yet another
codec, which I never looked at.  This was quite awhile ago, and all this
is from memory.

So the codec was rather uninteresting, but there were a number of other
"features" which got my attention.

I looked at the network protocol.  Its pretty simple.  The client connects
to the server and requests the file it wants.  It also sends a whole
bunch of other info, like host operating system, version number, etc.
("for statistical purposes, right?  uh huh..."  are you guys over there
at anonymizer.com reading this?  hint, hint.)

Then it does something truly bizarre.

The client and server exchange 32-digit hex numbers.  The client calls
gettimeofday() and gethostname() and uses this as a random seed.  Then
it sends a 128-bit random number, encoded as 32 ascii hex digits.  The
server does the same.

I haven't a clue what this is for.  Considering that the other data
structures are all binary, sending this as ascii is really dumb.  It looks
as though its part of some third-party library.  I thought maybe it was
some variant of netscape cookies but it doesn't save anything to disk. 
It's just wierd.  I tried stepping through this section of code a few
times, but doing so usually caused the server to time-out.

Then the server starts sending the audio file as one big stream of
packets - same format as the files it saves to disk, just broken up into
packets, each preceeded by a length byte.  In udp mode the client sends
acks every second or so.  In tcp mode there are no in-band acks at all,
it relies solely on the tcp protocol driver.  No checksums on anything,
and it uses predictable port numbers.  You can probably spoof it real
easy.  That might make for an interesting prank.





