From: Eric Murray <ericm@lne.com>
Date: Sun, 20 Apr 1997 19:23:01 -0700 (PDT)
To: adam@homeport.org
Subject: Re: SSL weakness affecting links from pa
In-Reply-To: <199704202032.PAA05999@homeport.org>
Message-ID: <199704210221.TAA00232@slack.lne.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Adam Shostack writes:
> 
> 	Thats true, but can they avoid it?  I'm considering writing a
> database pollution bot, which runs around, claiming to be Mozilla or
> IE, and randomly following a link once per minute.  Why?  Database
> pollution.  If there are a few thousand of these randomly collecing
> links and creating arbitrary (or perhaps biased) viewing habbits in
> the databases of the advertisers, then their individual data becomes
> worth less.  They'll need to actively solicit peoples permission to
> collect data before doing so, to avoid people polluting their
> databases.

That's an interesting thought.
As it happens last week I added a way in Cookie Jar to allow sending HTTP
User-agent to some sites... the reason is that I ran into a couple that
absolutely have to know what type of browser you are using, and if given no
User-agent deliver either meaningless HTML or nothing at all.
Well Fargo and wIrEd.cOm are the ones I found.

So I added a rule to pass the User-agent line to sites like that.
However I edit out the part that informs the server what OS etc
you are running.  The User-agent is usually something of the form

User-Agent: Mozilla/3.0Gold (X11; U; Linux 6.6.6 i386)

and it's the part in the parens that I really object to, the part
that says what browser you have seems to be what the sites in question
need to deliver useable HTML.

I briefly had it send:

User-Agent: Mozilla/3.0Gold (why; they; fuck do you care)

but now it sends nothing at all in the parens.


In order to maximally fuck up stats, what should be put into
the windowing system/OS fields?  It has to be something that
exists and is fairly common, so that its not able to be thrown out
by the stats-gathers.  I could use "(X11; MVS; IBM MVS some version number)"
but that'd be easy to throw out, even though ports of X to MVS really did
exist.

Maybe I'll just make every copy of Cookie Jar look like
it's running on Linux.


BTW, Wells Fargo's on-line banking sucks dead gerbils through a dirty
garden hose.  The interface is poor, it checks that you're using
SSL not by actually trying it, but by checking the User-agent
field to see if you're using a browser that supports SSL, and
then when I try to transfer money between accounts, it refuses with
no explanation.  A fine example of how NOT to do things.


-- 
   Eric Murray  ericm@lne.com         Privacy through technology!
  Network security and encryption consulting.    PGP keyid:E03F65E5 




