From: nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)
Date: Thu, 9 Oct 1997 19:20:31 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: No Subject
Message-ID: <199710091106.NAA23241@basement.replay.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



"THE DUKE" <pleontks@hotmail.com> writes:

>The government is not planning to murder everyone.  The Government is 
>not keeping aliens in the 'basement'.  The X-Files are not real.  The 
>government is not murdering public figures, and setting-up pore, 
>civilian saps to take the fall.  The only thing that the Government is 
>doing is running our country the best it can.

The Government routinely lies to the citizens it allegedly represents.
It infringes on the rights guaranteed those citizens by the Constitution.
The FCC can't allocate radio bandwidth efficiently, byt they seem to have
no problem telling Howard Stern not to say "vagina" on the radio. I could
go on and on, ad nauseam, but you get the idea.

If this is their best effort, they should be horsewhipped, tarred, 
feathered, and run out of town on a rail. Unfortunately, the brain-dead
populace continues to get hypnotized by their Pied-Piper tales and
makes the biennial Bataan death march to the polls (nice double
entendre there, n'est-ce pas?) to choose between Picto Bold and Picto
Light, the two candidates in their district who have a single common
goal: to get elected to an office where they can get a firm lip clamp
on the teat of the American taxpayer, and skim off the lobbyists in
their spare time. Neither one really gives a flying fuck about the
people they represent; it's the power they want.

>All you are doing for the Government, is finding fault and conspiracy in 
>every action.  You are destroying the Government, and are thereby 
>destroying America.

Why would I want to do anything for the Government? I already pay them
a tithe (oh, sure, you can call it "income tax") to stay the fuck away
from me, by and large. 

As soon as someone shows up at my door and says "Hi, I'm here from the
Government to help you," I'm running for my life. That kind of "help"
usually results in gunfire, or dependence on further Government subidies,
or having mopey Government types hang around to explain to me that I should
use water-based varnish so I don't wreck the ozone layer.

>None of you have my pity.  I spit upon you all.

None of us need your pity. And wipe your chin when you're done. And say
"hi" to Mr. Freeh next time you see him. Of course, it won't be his
face that'll be at eye level. . .

AngerMonger






