From: Robert Hettinga <rah@shipwright.com>
Date: Tue, 5 Aug 1997 07:30:26 -0700 (PDT)
To: Recipient List Suppressed:;
Subject: Financial Cryptography '98 Call for Papers
Message-ID: <v0311076eb00ce50bedae@[139.167.130.247]>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



--- begin forwarded text


Resent-Date: Mon, 4 Aug 1997 18:40:01 -0400
X-Authentication-Warning: online.offshore.com.ai: list set sender to
fc97-request@offshore.com.ai using -f
Date: Tue, 5 Aug 1997 00:06:32 +0200 (MET DST)
From: Ray Hirschfeld <R.Hirschfeld@cwi.nl>
To: ray@cwi.nl
Subject: Financial Cryptography '98 Call for Papers
Resent-From: fc97@offshore.com.ai
X-Mailing-List: <fc97@offshore.com.ai> archive/latest/65
X-Loop: fc97@offshore.com.ai
Precedence: list
Resent-Sender: fc97-request@offshore.com.ai

		      Financial Cryptography '98
		   Second International Conference
		 February 23-26, 1998, Anguilla, BWI
			   CALL FOR PAPERS


General Information:

Financial Cryptography '98 (FC98) is a conference on the security of
digital financial transactions.  Meetings alternate between the island
of Anguilla in the British West Indies and other locations.  This
second meeting will be held in Anguilla on February 23-26, 1998.  FC98
aims to bring together persons involved in both the financial and data
security fields to foster cooperation and exchange of ideas.

Original papers are solicited on all aspects of financial data
security and digital commerce in general, including

    Anonymous Payments                      Fungibility
    Authentication                          Home Banking
    Communication Security                  Identification
    Conditional Access                      Implementations
    Copyright Protection                    Loss Tolerance
    Credit/Debit Cards                      Loyalty Mechanisms
    Currency Exchange                       Legal Aspects
    Digital Cash                            Micropayments
    Digital Receipts                        Network Payments
    Digital Signatures                      Privacy Issues
    Economic Implications                   Regulatory Issues
    Electronic Funds Transfer               Smart Cards
    Electronic Purses                       Standards
    Electronic Voting                       Tamper Resistance
    Electronic Wallets                      Transferability


Instructions for Authors:

Send a cover letter and 12 copies of an extended abstract to be
received by November 17, 1997 (or postmarked by November 7, 1997 and
sent via airmail) to the Program Chair at the address given below.

The extended abstract should start with the title, the names of the
authors, and an abstract followed by a succinct statement appropriate
for a non-specialist reader specifying the subject addressed, its
background, the main achievements, and their significance to financial
data security.  Submissions are limited to 15 single-spaced pages of
12pt type.  Notification of acceptance or rejection will be sent to
authors no later than January 12, 1998.

Authors of accepted papers must guarantee that their paper will
be presented at the conference.


Proceedings:

Proceedings of the conference will be published by Springer Verlag in
their Lecture Notes in Computer Science (LNCS) series.  Preproceedings
will be available at the conference, but final versions will not be
due until afterwards, giving authors the opportunity to revise their
papers based on presentations and discussions at the meeting.
Instructions and deadlines for submission of final papers will be sent
later to authors of accepted papers.


Rump Session:

In addition to the regular conference program, a rump session will be
held to provide an opportunity for less formal presentations.
Although the rump session will be organized during the conference
itself, any advance proposals may be sent to the Program Co-Chair at
the email address given below.  Rump session contributions will not
appear in the conference proceedings.


Stipends:

A very limited number of stipends may be available to those unable to
obtain funding to attend the conference.  Students whose papers are
accepted and who will present the paper themselves are encouraged to
apply if such assistance is needed.  Requests for stipends should be
addressed to one of the General Chairs.


Registration:

Information about conference registration and on travel, hotels, and
Anguilla itself will follow in a separate general announcement.  There
will be special discount registration rates for authors of accepted
submissions, full-time academics, and students.


Workshop:

A workshop, intended for anyone with commercial software development
experience who wants hands-on familiarity with the issues and
technology of financial cryptography, is planned in conjunction with
FC98, to be held during the week preceding the conference.  For
information, please contact one of the General Chairs.


Send Submissions to:

Rafael Hirschfeld
FC98 Program Chair
CWI
Kruislaan 413
1098 SJ Amsterdam
The Netherlands
email: ray@cwi.nl
phone: +31 20 592 4169
fax: +31 20 592 4199


Send Rump Session Contributions to:

Matthew Franklin
FC98 Program Co-Chair
email: franklin@research.att.com


Program Committee:

Matt Blaze, AT&T Laboratories--Research, Florham Park, NJ, USA
Antoon Bosselaers, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Leuven, Belgium
Yves Carlier, Bank for International Settlements, Basel, Switzerland
Walter Effross, Washington College of Law, American U., Washington DC, USA
Matthew Franklin, AT&T Laboratories--Research, Florham Park, NJ, USA
Michael Froomkin, U. Miami School of Law, Coral Gables, FL, USA
Rafael Hirschfeld, CWI, Amsterdam, The Netherlands
Alain Mayer, Bell Laboratories/Lucent Technologies, Murray Hill, NJ, USA
Moni Naor, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, Israel
Frank Trotter, Mark Twain Ecash/Mercantile Bank, St. Louis, MO, USA
Doug Tygar, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA, USA
Moti Yung, CertCo LLC (formerly: Bankers Trust E-Commerce), New York, NY, USA


General Chairs:

Robert Hettinga, Shipwright, Boston, MA, USA
   email: rah@shipwright.com
Vincent Cate, Offshore Information Services, Anguilla, BWI
   email: vince@offshore.com.ai


Exhibits and Sponsorship Manager:

Julie Rackliffe, Boston, MA, USA
   email: rackliffe@tcm.org


Workshop Leader:

Ian Goldberg, Berkeley, CA, USA
   email: iang@cs.berkeley.edu


Those interested in becoming a sponsor of FC98 or in purchasing
exhibit space, please contact the Exhibits and Sponsorship Manager.

A copy of this call for papers as well as other information about the
conference will be available at URL http://www.cwi.nl/conferences/FC98.

--- end forwarded text



-----------------
Robert Hettinga (rah@shipwright.com), Philodox
e$, 44 Farquhar Street, Boston, MA 02131 USA
"... however it may deserve respect for its usefulness and antiquity,
[predicting the end of the world] has not been found agreeable to
experience." -- Edward Gibbon, 'Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire'
The e$ Home Page: http://www.shipwright.com/






