From: Declan McCullagh <declan@well.com>
Date: Thu, 20 Nov 1997 12:11:32 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Censorware Summit agenda (December 1-3)
Message-ID: <v0300781ab09960e81d17@[204.254.22.110]>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



[Note civil liberties and journalism groups are absent from the list of
organizations represented. --Declan]

===========


FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE                   CONTACT:
Wednesday, November 19, 1997                    Sydney Rubin, 301/654-5991
                                                        Malena Hougen,
202/828-9730



INTERNET/ONLINE SUMMIT: FOCUS ON CHILDREN RELEASES AGENDA FOR MEETING,
DECEMBER 1-3



WASHINGTON, D.C. - Organizers of the Internet/Online Summit: Focus on Children
today released an agenda for the historic three-day meeting of public
interest and family advocates, educators, industry leaders and law
enforcement officials joining forces to find  ways to enhance the safety
and education of children in cyberspace.

The meeting is the first time so many diverse organizations have come
together to address safety and content issues related to children and the
new mass medium. The Summit is the first in a series of discussions on
issues affecting children in cyberspace, including advertising, access,
privacy, and marketing and content.  The first meeting will focus on
content and safety.

The December 1-3 Summit will include speakers, panels, announcements of
initiatives taken by the Summit and its participants, and a small
exhibition of technological tools and educational resources available to
help parents manage children's time on-line.  Panelists will be announced
prior to the Summit.

The Summit Agenda, which is subject to change, follows:

MONDAY, DECEMBER 1,  5 p.m. - 8:30 p.m.
Registration and Opening Reception adjacent to technological tools kiosks

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 7:30 a.m. - 6 p.m.
Breakfast
Call to Order
Speaker (Vice President Al Gore invited to speak)
Presentation on Good Content with the Public Broadcasting System and others
Framing the Issues: speaker Lois Jean White, President of the National PTA
Panel in Framing the Issues
Panel in "Safety"
Luncheon Speakers:      Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich, Secretary of
Commerce
William M. Daley

Presentation on Law Enforcement On-Line: Attorney General Janet Reno and
panelists
Presentation on Public Education: Secretary Richard W. Riley and panelists
Presentation on the Technology Tool Kit
Panel on Filtering and Ratings

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 3,  8:30 a.m. - noon
Breakfast
Review of Previous Day:  Christine Varney, Chairperson of the Summit
Congressional Roundtable with Summit Participants
Kids Panel Moderated by Linda Ellerbee
Conclusion

All activities will take place at the Renaissance Washington, D.C. Hotel at
999 Ninth Street, N.W.

Registration to attend the Summit must be done through the Summit's Web
site: www.kidsonline.org.  Separate registration forms are available at the
site for journalists and the public, as well as other information as it
become available.

A partial list of the organizations sponsoring the Summit includes:

AT&T                                                    America Online
American Library Association                            Center for
Democracy and Technology
Center for Media Education                              Children Now
The Children's Partnership                              CompuServe
The Direct Marketing Association                        Disney Online
Digital Equipment/Alta Vista                            Enough is Enough
Family Education Company                                IBM
Interactive Services Association                                The
Learning Company/Cyber Patrol
Microsoft Corporation                                   MCI Communication
Corporation
NETCOM                                          Net Nanny
National Association of Secondary School Principals
National Center for Missing & Exploited Children        National Consumers
League
National Education Association                          National Law Center
Surfwatch                                               Time Warner

# # #






