From: Marc Fourny<acclivity@interweb.be>
Date: Fri, 11 Jul 1997 03:52:08 +0800
To: <cypherpunks@toad.com>
Subject: Acclivity - A global web of change management
Message-ID: <199707101726.TAA07502@cathedral.interweb.be>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



acclivity
Apologies for cross-posting
Excuse me if this message does not concern you.

web site: http://www.acclivity-consultants.com
email:acclivity@interweb.be


Dear ,

I am pleased to announce the formation of Acclivity, an international network of independent management consulting practices in fourteen countries in Europe, North America and Africa, specialising in all aspects of corporate transformation.

For corporate executives managing change in the transformation of their business is an increasingly complex task.  How can they manage risk ? How are they to control change and still keep the initiative ? How much creativity should be involved in new projects ?  Will their staff fully participate and cooperate in the changes envisaged ?  Acclivity  has been set up to assist clients, many of whom are international companies and are transforming across national boundaries, to answer these and other questions: and at the same help them master all aspects of the transformation process so leading them towards a more competitive position and profitable future.

Acclivity differentiates itself from its competitors in that all the consultants in the network are senior experienced people whose role is to provide advice and guide the clientUs staff through the various stages of the transformation process. There are no junior consultants and analysts as we believe all the detailed work should be carried out by clientUs staff. All the consultants are used to working in different countries and carrying out cross border assignments.

Together, the Acclivity consultants provide the full range of methodologies used in change management and transformation. From their different backgrounds, they bring the full value of their professional and cultural skills as well as their competencies and creativity to help the client:

7 determine new value proposition for his target markets
7 reengineer his business
7 develop cross-functional organisations
7 transform his strategic and operational processes
7 open his operations to external partners - clients, suppliers and contractors
7 renew his innovation processes, awaken hidden talents, and enhance his creativity and knowhow
7 reshape the culture and values within his business
7 strengthen his human capital
7 restructure  his support  functions: human resources management, finance and accounting, and information systems and technology.

The distinctive added-value offered by our network lies not only in the mastery of these particular methodologies. An effective transformation also requires that the consultant provides assistance in all areas where the organisation has to be mobilised.

In order to secure long-lasting sustainable results each Acclivity assignment is composed of three modules:

7 we lead the executive team through the transformation journey. The use of organisational prototypes, for instance, minimises the business risks. We help management modify its modus operandi so as to provide the opportunity of involving the whole organisation in the change process
7 our own research, observation, and analysis of best practice cases are used as guidelines for the companies change efforts, from strategy definition to detailed implementation of the new organisation
7 finally, we train the change team to innovate, install and implement new structures and systems. In addition we develop a new project management capability which is particularly key to success when radical change is involved. 

I would welcome the opportunity therefore of discussing with you your own tranformation programme to see how we might be able to add value to your own resources.

Yours sincerely,

Marc Fourny
President

web site: http://www.acclivity-consultants.com
email:acclivity@interweb.be





