From: John Young <jya@pipeline.com>
Date: Sat, 6 Dec 1997 07:24:57 +0800
To: Wesley Griffin <wgriffin@enslaved.student.umd.edu>
Subject: Re: SynData/Schneier Attack Network Associates
Message-ID: <1.5.4.32.19971205231852.006aec98@pop.pipeline.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Wes, below's the full article and source. You can reach Bruce via
http://www.counterpane.com.

 4 December 1997, PRNewswire:

 Right to Privacy for Sale in Cyberspace; SynData Technologies Inc. Speaks Out 
 Against Key Recovery

 Cedar Grove, N.J. -- SynData Technologies Inc., a provider of encryption
software 
 solutions, released a statement today condemning Network Associates Inc., the 
 market leader for virus protection software products, for supporting the
government's 
 key recovery program. Network Associates Inc., formerly known as McAfee
Associates Inc.,
 recently purchased Pretty Good Privacy (PGP) for $36 million, an encryption
 software provider. PGP had historically been opposed to key recovery. 

 "It is time to seriously consider the threat that Network Associates poses
to the
 individual's constitutional right to privacy," said David Romanoff, CEO of
SynData
 Technologies Inc. "While Network Associates claims to protect privacy in
 cyberspace, they have actually traded our right to privacy for a shot at
increased
 revenues overseas by supporting the key recovery program. The slippery slope
 has begun right under our noses. It's time to challenge both the government and
 companies who support the government's key recovery program before it is too
 late." 

 The United States Commerce Department does not allow US encryption software
 makers to export strong encryption without a key recovery program. Companies
 who do not believe in the government's key recovery program are forced to
 develop both export and domestic versions of their software, each with a
different
 strength. 

 "The government's key recovery program is a complete violation of the
 individual's right to privacy and, in fact, compromises of the system are
already
 taking place. This shows that key escrow is an untenable policy," said Bruce
 Schneier, one of the world's leading authorities on encryption and author
of the
 book "Applied Cryptography". "SynData is paving the way for other software
 developers by taking a stand in opposition to the government and companies like
 Network Associates." 

 SynData Technologies does not believe in key recovery or other government
 involvement in the regulation of the encryption software industry. The company
 also believes that the current export curbs on encryption put the entire
industry at
 a competitive disadvantage. Additionally, these policies undermine the
security of
 the global marketplace and put the individual's right to privacy at risk. 

 SynData Technologies Inc., based in Cedar Grove, New Jersey, unveiled their
 flagship encryption software product, SynCrypt, in September of this year.
 SynCrypt is available directly from SynData Technologies, 800-499-1469, and
 through downloads from the company's Website: www.syncrypt.com. 

-----





