From: Eric Cordian <emc@wire.insync.net>
Date: Fri, 10 Oct 1997 00:30:53 +0800
To: cypherpunks@cyberpass.net
Subject: Re: Where is _my_ blowjob?
In-Reply-To: <343C739A.72AA@dev.null>
Message-ID: <199710091622.LAA17373@wire.insync.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Some sort of Monger wrote:

> So it was no great surprise to find CNN still reporting the LIE that
> the child-rapist/murderer in New Jersey had been a victim of a sexual
> predator he had met on the InterNet, despite the fact that the news
> services who *aren't* part of the fifty billion dollar giveaway of
> taxpayer-citizen's public resources have been reporting the FACTS for
> quite some time now.

The facts are that a 15 year old exploring his gay sexuality entered into
a long term relationships with an older guy he met on a chat line. 

Cops entrapped the younger one in a child porn sting, seized his hard
drive, bugged his phone, and tried to force him to incriminate his friend. 
He finally got pissed, smashed the recording machine, told his friend what
was going on, and suggested the cops fuck themselves. 

His parents and the cops then tried to have him declared insane and
institutionalized, which didn't work.  They also immediately arrested his
friend.  The cops working on his case then phoned the team investigating
the murder of the younger boy, and gave his name to them as a suspect.  He
was then arrested and jailed for that murder, although no direct evidence
linking him to the murder has been released. 

The boy's parents have now embarked upon a nationwide crusade claiming
that their "rights" were violated because laws do not allow the parents of
a minor to institutionalize him at will.  They have signed a legal waver
of their child's right to privacy in order to facilitate this crusade, in
spite of the fact that he will likely be tried as an adult and this will
undoubtedly prejudice his trial.

Meanwhile, the parents have not let these minor tribulations mess up the
their heavy schedule of lavish vacations and casino gambling. 

The press continues to harp on the "murder suspect was abused"  and
"parents rights foiled by the system" aspects of the case, to the
exclusion of the possibility that he is only in jail because the police
wanted to screw him, or that the murder was committed in a blind fit of
rage as a result of his manipulation at the hands of various authority
figures. 

Somewhere in all of this is the truth, which will no doubt unfold as all
these scenarios play themselves out.

--
Eric Michael Cordian 0+
O:.T:.O:. Mathematical Munitions Division
"Do What Thou Wilt Shall Be The Whole Of The Law"





