From: TruthMonger <tm@dev.null>
Date: Thu, 4 Dec 1997 11:22:11 +0800
To: James Love <love@cptech.org>
Subject: Re: Censorial leftists (Was: Interesting testicle)
In-Reply-To: <Pine.LNX.3.95.971203181646.154B-100000@vorlon.mit.edu>
Message-ID: <34861C6C.67C@dev.null>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



James Love writed: 
> Declan McCullagh wronged:
> > Jamie, I may have missed the fab 50s but I suspect you spent a little too
> > much time in the psychadelic 60s. In 1997, a leftist can best be defined
> > as a big government fetishist. :)
> 
>    A "big government fetishist" is cute, but it seems fairly
> non-specific.  Are moral majority types leftists?  Are the supporters of
> the Department of Commerce leftists?  Are supporters of a bloated
> defense department leftists?  Can't get enough of that CIA funding
> leftists?  IMF supporters are leftists?  FED lovers are leftists?
> Groups that lobby for higher crop supports are leftists?  S&L bail out
> supporters are leftists?  Supporters of GATT are leftists?  Are
> supporters of more NIH funding leftists?  (how about the PhRMA support
> for this?)  Supporters of aggressive new government programs to define
> (and enforce) new Intellectual Property rights are leftists?

Declan McCullagh replied:
> Jamie, if you're seriously confused about the differences between
> left-wing and right-wing groups I can help educate you, perhaps with a few
> rules of thumb. But I suspect that you really don't want a serious answer.

  That's my cue...prepare for a deadly non-serious answer.

  The left-wing and right-wing extremests have finally moved so
far off of center that they have completed the circle of the Tao,
moving in opposite directions, and will shortly be exactly the
same for a brief instant, before continuing on to become the
polar opposite of what they previously were.
{They will, however, each remained as convinced as ever that the
 'other' is totally wrong in their beliefs, despite the fact that
 the 'other' will now hold beliefs exactly in tune with their
 own 'old' beliefs.}

  Actually, recent discussions about the need for the Republicans
and Democrats to work toward redefining themselves so that there
is actually a difference between them indicates that society and
government have reached a stage where it is getting very difficult
for members of an 'individualist' society to keep pretending that
there is a difference between 'discrimination' fascists and 'equality'
fascists, 'free-market' fascists and 'communist' fascists, 'moral'
fascists and 'immoral' fascists.
  Right...let's throw out the bums who are passing laws to 'force'
us to imprison Jews and elect bums who will pass laws to 'force'
us to imprison Jew-haters.

  Nazi - "I don't put them in the ovens, I just turn on the gas."
  Fascist - "I don't freeze them to death, I just turn off the gas."

LISTEN UP!!! (I'LL TYPE SLOWLY...)
  Faster horses, older whiskey, younger women, more money.

  Democracy is a political system designed to put Fascism in the
hands of the people.
  Fascism is a political system designed to take Democracy out of
the hands of the people and into the hands of the Machine.

  Money and Guns...

Guns - "If we were caught hiding Jews, the Gestapo would send us
to prison with them."
  "If we spoke out against the actions of the Israelies, the 
Justice Department would arrest us as members of a hate group."
  "If we resisted the Nazi Party, we were hounded from our jobs 
and reviled by our neighbors."
  "If we supported the Communist Party, we were hounded from our
jobs in Hollywood and reviled by our neighbors."
  "If we called John Gilmore a cocksucker, we were forcefully
unsubscribed from the CypherPunks mailing list."

Money
  "Those with the most money can buy the most guns."

NEWS FLASH!!!
  Whether you are forced to 'do right' or forced to 'do no wrong'
will depend on whether the 'leftists' or the 'rightists' have the
most money and guns.

NEWS FLASH ADDENDUM!!!
  Those seeking to 'save' you are likely to afflict as much damage
to your rights and freedoms as those seeking to 'oppress' you.

NOTE TO BOY SCOUTS!!!
  If an old lady doesn't want to cross the street, that is an act
of 'passive aggression' and you have a right to use as much force
as necessary to get her across the street.

  Is there a difference in the degree of 'dead' between a person
shot by a left-hander and one shot by a right-hander?
  Do you have a preference for having an individual, a government
or a corporation as your dictator/oppressor?
  Is it of great concern to you to be allowed to 'vote' as to
which person gives you an unneeded prostrate exam?

  By the time everyone reaches agreement on the proper definition
of 'leftist' and 'rightist', it will be time to turn to the person
chained to you in the dark, dank prison cell, and ask them what 
their defenition of 'imprisonment' is.

Don't take any wooden dictators...

TruthMonger





