From: Ari Hypponen <Ari.Hypponen@DataFellows.com>
Date: Mon, 17 Mar 1997 07:27:56 -0800 (PST)
To: F-Secure-Press-Global@DataFellows.com
Subject: Data Fellows and Nokia Secure Wireless Corporate Intranet Access
Message-ID: <3.0.32.19970317165909.009cb380@datafellows.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


March 17, 1997

Data Fellows and Nokia Secure Wireless Corporate Intranet Access
- Improved security enables GSM operators to connect Intranets

(Hannover, March 17, 1997) Data Fellows and Nokia Telecommunications have
signed an agreement to integrate Data Fellows' award winning F-Secure VPN
encryption software into Nokia's Artus wireless data networking
solutions. The Nokia Artus solution enables GSM operators to offer secure
corporate Intranet solutions, without the requirement of using costly
leased lines to reach their corporate customers.

"Weakness of remote access security has discouraged remote access to
corporate networks. In partnership with Data Fellows we can now provide GSM
operators with an IP networking solution which meets the strict security
requirements of corporate IT managers. This means new business for GSM
networks," said Petri Pöyhönen, Vice President, Wireless Data Server
Systems at Nokia Telecommunications.

"Intranet remote access outsourced to GSM operators represents an important
market restructuring. In the context of Nokia's Artus Managed Internet
Access Point (IAP) networking solution, we can see immediate potential of
leveraging our encryption technology already widely used for LAN
interconnect," said Risto Siilasmaa, Managing Director at Data Fellows.

Data Fellows' F-Secure VPN encrypts and compresses TCP/IP packets
transmitted over public data networks to private corporate networks.
Military-strength cryptographic security of F-Secure VPN prevents
malicious access to the transferred information. Encryption is implemented
at transport layer and is thus transparent for applications.

A major business potential for wireless operators is to further extend
corporate Intranets to the world of wireless coverage. This enables
businesses to increase their efficiency by ensuring their staff secure,
wireless connectivity to their e-mail, groupware and corporate database
resources.

Remote access to corporate data resources has been traditionally
implemented in corporate premises with dial-in modems. Corporate IT can 
now outsource this costly telecom access technology to GSM operators and
operate in a clean IP protocol environment. Remote access becomes as 
simple as LAN interconnect.

In the interest of future market compatibility, Data Fellows and Nokia are
both committed to following the emerging open IP security standards.

Data Fellows is a software development company with offices in San Jose,
California, and Helsinki, Finland. Data Fellows is a technology leader in
its major business areas of anti-virus, data security and cryptography
software.

F-secure products have won several awards over the past several months.
These have included the HOT Product 1997 Award from Data Communication
magazine, Best New Networking Product from LAN Magazine and the Grand Award
in the European IT Prize competition.

Data Fellows is privately held. Annual growth in net sales has been over
100% since the company was founded in 1988.

Nokia is a Finland-based telecommunications group with a net sales of USD
8.5 billion in 1996. Nokia has approximately 31,000 employees world-wide.
Nokia is one of the two largest GSM/DCS suppliers in the world and the
leader in wireless data solutions. Nokia Telecommunications' Information
Networking Systems division develops, implements, and markets systems based
on Internet technologies to telecommunications operators.


For more information, please contact:

Mr. Jukka Kotovirta, Data Fellows Ltd.
Tel. int. +358 40 588 3933, e-mail: jukka.kotovirta@datafellows.com

Mr. Heikki Koskinen, Nokia Telecommunications
Tel. int. +358 40 502 7967, e-mail: heikki.koskinen@ntc.nokia.com

Ms. Arja Suominen, Nokia Telecommunications
Tel. int. +358 9 511 38193, e-mail: arja.suominen@ntc.nokia.com

Internet:   http://www.datafellows.com/    http://ntc.nokia.com/


--
Ari.Hypponen@DataFellows.com, World-Wide Web http://www.DataFellows.com





