From: nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)
Date: Sat, 5 Jul 1997 10:41:20 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Key Recovery Policy in Japan
Message-ID: <199707050229.EAA20948@basement.replay.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Joichi Ito wrote:
> 
> Hi folks. I'm on a Japanese National Police Agency study group board working
> on proposals for Key Recovery policy in Japan. The only documents that
> are currently being reviewed are rather official OECD type documents
> from the US and I am trying to find other opinions (technical, legal,
> political) which I can add to the reports/documents being reviewed by
> the panel.

{Excerpt from "The Xenix Chainsaw Massacre" (c) 1989, Pearl Publishing}
http://bureau42.base.org/public/xenix

We now live in an age where, in between the slumber of the soap operas
and the bewitchment of 'prime time,' we are fed our opinions and our
world-views in catch-phrases and ten second sound-bytes. 

At the same time, Gomez sees to it that there is enough trouble and
turmoil in the world that the World Leaders, even in democracies, can
chip away at human and individual rights under the guise of dealing 
with various 'threats' that they, themselves, have concocted as a 
means of retaining power over the masses. 

Even as the governments of the world strive to bring everyone and 
everything, however minute, under tight control and regulation, Gomez 
and the Dark Allies are behind the scenes, helping to guide the 
development of a technology that will, along with television, be the
ultimate weapon in their struggle for the domination of all mankind--the
Computer.

The rich and powerful have managed to lull us to sleep with the 
hypnotizing power of television---stealing our thoughts and our 
reasoning processes in our slumber, feeding us our reality via the 
airwaves...according to the 'official' party line. 

The government and the media have placed us on neat little shelves 
where we are numbered and labeled according to their own wants and 
needs. We are allowed the illusion of freedom of thought, and individual
choice, as long as we have our 'Freedom of Thought Permit 1136.51.709'
and don't stray too far from the permitted paths. 

In the great battles of the past the Dark Forces have always been 
beaten by the individuals scattered in the secret places, living 
unnoticed in obscurity. Living quietly and unobtrusively, forgotten 
about in the madness storming the land, they have kept alive the spark
of Thought and Reason. They were able to go quietly about their work, 
making contact with the individuals who were ready to escape the madness
and work towards restoring Sanity in the land.

This time there will be no escape. Every man, woman and child on the 
face of the earth will have a dossier documenting their life from the 
time of their arrival on the face of the planet.
Information gleaned from the Department of Motor Vehicles, their Social
Security Number, banks, credit cards, magazine subscriptions, charitable
and political contributions. 

When Gomez removes the masks of his human allies, revealing them as 
dark agents who have been rewarded with wealth and power for doing the 
bidding of the Evil One, the names of the misfits and wrong-thinkers 
will be spit out of the computers at the speed of light---to be rounded
up and disposed of in the opening salvo of the new Holocaust. 

Only then will the final Battle of Armageddon begin, ravaging the face
of the earth and devouring humanity; bringing total control of humankind
under the Dominion of the Evil One, with nobody but the Waking Dead left
to carry on the human race. 

          ***     ***    ***

{Excerpt from "Webworld" (c) 1997, Pearl Publishing}
http://bureau42.base.org/public/webworld

        Prologue to 'WebWorld & The Mythical Circle of Eunuchs'


The great tragedy of it, is that it didn't have to happen. Not at 
all...we were warned.
And yet, still, it has come to this. 

I don't know why I feel this overwhelming compulsion to go on and on 
about it. I could have done something.
We all could have done something.

Perhaps the final epitaph on the gravestone of Freedom will be, 
"Why didn't somebody _do_ something?" 

That seems to be the common battle-cry of the legions of humanity that 
have been sucked into the vortex of the New World Order.
None of the imprisoned seem to know that the very phrase itself is 
reflective of the source of their imprisonment...that this desperate 
cry of anguish is in no way an antidote for the terrible disease that
has afflicted 'Liberty and Justice', and that it is, rather, merely the
final symptom of the cursed blight itself. 

I can hear the rumbling of the trucks as they come up the street, and 
soon I will be hearing the thumping of the jackboots storming up the
staircase, as I have heard them so many times before. But I suspect 
that this time, the sound will be different, that it will have an 
ethereal quality about it, one which conveys greater personal meaning
than it did when I heard it on previous occasions.
This time, they are coming for me. 

My only hope, is that I can find the strength of character somewhere 
inside myself to ask the question which lies at the heart of why there
is a 'they' to come for me at all...why, in the end, it has finally 
come to this for me, as for countless others. 

The question is, in retrospect, as simple and basic as it is essential
for any who still espouse the concepts of freedom and liberty to ask 
themselves upon finding themselves marveling at the outrageousness 
being perpetrated upon their neighbors by 'them'...by 'others'...by 
'Friends of the Destroyer.' 

                                 The question is:
                            "Why didn't _I_ do something?"





