From: Declan McCullagh <declan@well.com>
Date: Fri, 31 Oct 1997 08:37:37 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: White House reiterates support for censorware
Message-ID: <v03007819b07ed06794e5@[168.161.105.141]>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Note:

>	-- Promoted a "family friendly" Internet: President Clinton has
>worked to make cyberspace a safe place for children by cracking down
>on illegal content on the Internet and encouraging the private sector
>to develop software that can screen out content that is inappropriate
>for children.

-Declan

****************

	White House Fact Sheet on 'Starbright World'
	NETWORKS FOR PEOPLE:
	CLINTON-GORE AND THE INFORMATION SUPERHIGHWAY
	October 30, 1997
	"And I challenge the private sector tonight to start by connecting
every children's hospital as soon as possible, so that a child in bed
can stay in touch with school, family and friends.  A sick child need
no longer be a child alone."
	-- President Clinton, State of the Union Address, February 4, 1997
	Today, President Clinton and Vice President Gore will unveil and
demonstrate Starbright World, an on-line computer network that
enables seriously ill children to meet, play and verbally communicate
with one another..
	Starbright World meets the President's State of the Union
challenge to the private sector to help connect seriously ill
children in hospitals across the country.  They will be joined in
launching this program by Starbright Chairman Steven Spielberg and
Starbright Capital Campaign Chairman General H. Norman Schwarzkopf.
	President Clinton and Vice President Gore have made promoting the
Internet and other information and communications technologies a top
priority. They believe that the Internet is an engine of economic
growth and job creation, and a powerful tool for educating our
children and expanding access to health care.  Below are just a few
of their accomplishments:
	-- Created an "e-rate" for schools, libraries and rural health
clinics: As part of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, President
Clinton fought for an "e-rate" which will provide more than
$2.5 billion per year in discounts for schools, libraries and
rural health clinics to connect to the Internet.
	-- Proposed a $2 billion Technology Literacy Challenge Fund:
To put the future at the fingertips of our children, President
Clinton believes we must connect every classroom to the Internet
by the year 2000, increase the number of multimedia computers
in the classroom, give teachers the training they need to use
technology effectively, and promote the development of high-quality
educational software.  To help states and local communities meet
these goals, President Clinton has proposed a 5-year, $2 billion
Technology Literacy Challenge Fund, with more than $400 million
in funding in his FY98 budget.
	-- Promoted a "family friendly" Internet: President Clinton has
worked to make cyberspace a safe place for children by cracking down
on illegal content on the Internet and encouraging the private sector
to develop software that can screen out content that is inappropriate
for children.
	-- Supported grassroots efforts to bring technology to our
schools: President Clinton and Vice President Gore have been
active participants in volunteer efforts like "NetDay" and "U.S.
Tech Corps."
	-- Invested in the Next Generation Internet: President Clinton has
launched an initiative to connect more than 100 universities at
speeds that are 100-1,000 times faster than today's Internet, and
to develop the next generation of applications, such as telemedicine.
This will ensure that the United States remains at the cutting-edge
of Internet technology.
	-- Developed a strategy to foster global electronic commerce:
In July 1997, President Clinton unveiled a strategy to eliminate
the barriers to global electronic commerce, which will create instant
access to global markets for America








