From: jf_avon@citenet.net
Date: Wed, 3 Sep 1997 04:01:41 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Cdn-Firearms Digest V1 #974
In-Reply-To: <199709021708.LAA11034@broadway.sfn.saskatoon.sk.ca>
Message-ID: <199709021948.PAA14278@cti06.citenet.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Excerpt from Canadian Firearms Digest V1 #974
---------------------------------------------------------------------

Date:          Tue, 2 Sep 1997 11:08:33 -0600 
From:          owner-cdn-firearms-digest@sfn.saskatoon.sk.ca 
To:            cdn-firearms-digest@broadway.sfn.saskatoon.sk.ca 
Subject:       Cdn-Firearms Digest V1 #974 
Reply-to:      cdn-firearms-digest@sfn.saskatoon.sk.ca

Date: Mon, 1 Sep 1997 20:25:42 -0600
From: "GoPlayer Kootenay" <Kootenay@goplay.com>
Subject: Is Our Government a Legitimate One?

This is really just the beginning of what I hope will turn into true
multi-logue among not only the RFC, but the Canadian people:

What makes a government, at any level, "legitimate"?  Is it a line or two
in some Statute Book or Constitution, or is it the Continued Assent of The
People That Are Governed?

I think it's the second choice; our current government at the Canadian
federal level thinks it's the first choice.

It IS "against the law" to advocate, or to attempt, the ousting of the
Canadian government by any method except by the process of voting.

These laws were framed in a day when the ideals of Democracy were held high
by Government, and the rights of the individual were of the order that the
Libertarian movement advocate today.  Government RESPECTED the wishes of
the people, and generally didn't try to do any propaganda to mould public
opinion (except in time of war against the common foe).

In turn, the People respected their Government(s) and their laws and
statutes, because their elected representatives truly strove to REPRESENT
their constituents, and their concerns.  Prime Ministers did not beat up on
MPs that spoke their minds in favour of the folks "back home" in the
Riding.  Members of Parliament and Legislatures were honour-bound to resign
at the first hint of involvement in Scandal.

Times have changed.

The Canadian People no longer respect their government, by and large.
They do not believe that their elected representatives are much better than
confidence-men.  Canadians know that MP's and Members of Legislatures will
follow what the Party Leader and his Cabinet decree.
Ministers and Members no longer think of Scandal as something repugnant to
Honour -- just as a temporary embarrassment.  Their Leaders rarely pressure
them to resign.  

Democracy is a mere shell of what it once was.  Justice peeks through her
blindfold when it suits her.

Canadian Government has lost its legitimacy.  It no longer has the True
Assent of the People; it keeps its power by increasing its level of visible
intimidation of the People, relying on Rule-by-Statute and  Orders-In-Council.

Canadians increasingly are afraid of their Government.  And the Government
knows that.  

In turn, the Government is increasingly estranged from the People, and
passes Laws to coerce "desired behaviour", rather than Good Law that is a
REFLECTION of the Peoples' morals and standards.

I'm sure most of you have noticed the steep rise in the use of SWAT units
to attend incidents where conventional uniformed police officers would have
been the norm a decade ago.

I'm certain that you have noticed an increasing lack-of-regard by the
police for the rights of the Public.

I know that most of you are aware that the police are tending to over-react
in many clearly non-threatening situations -- take the Chilliwack BB gun
incident, for example.

And our police do what they are told by their bosses.

Just like good little Germans did what they were told by their bosses not
so long ago.

Good little Canadians are becoming "good little Germans".  Only the
uniforms are different.  

When the Russians had had enough of their pre-1917 totalitarian royalist
regime, they backed an equally-repressive revolutionary Communist regime.
It took them over 70 years to dump that one.

People will always opt for a "change", when they are pushed far enough.  

Bills C-17 and C-68 are just two examples of the Canadian government's
thinking, "Perhaps the People *have* been pushed nearer the breaking point".

It's food for careful thought.  And speech.  Shhhhh!    


- ------------------------------------------------------





