From: dlv@bwalk.dm.com (Dr.Dimitri Vulis KOTM)
Date: Sat, 18 Jan 1997 10:52:41 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Gilmore and Sandfart suck big dicks
Message-ID: <4Lmq1D13w165w@bwalk.dm.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Someone wrote to me:

>Did you not mean any homo who has ever shaffted Gilmore and Sandy can
>write what the fuck they like but straight or intelligent or NORMAL
>people will have to be filtered.

Yes, that's precisely how Sandfart's moderation will work. Homosexuals
like Jason Durbin will continue to post personal attacks on Gilmore's
many "enemies", but the victims of the libel will not be able to respond
and refute their lies. The concept of "the best response to speech you
don't like is more speech" is totally alien to the homosexual subculture
on the Internet. These control freaks are into censorship and B&D.

>I realize that normal people are few and far between in cypher punks.

There may be quite a few normal and knowledgeable people left among the
subscribers, but most posters are indeed militant homosexual censors
who don't care about crypto except to drop a few "kewl" phrases - like
Paul Bradley's infamous "brute-force attack on one-time pads".

>I am NOT a cypher-punk and I hope that you do not class me as one, I am
>merely interested in cryptography and believe it or not I actually pick
>up tips every now and again from the list.

I'm sure you're not a "cypher punk" - you're both too smart and too
straight. :-) A while back I saw an announcement of a "cypher punks"
meating where Jim Bell was explicitly disinvited, and I announced that
I don't consider myself a "cypher punk". Jim Bell is a pro-censorship
asshole, but I will defend his freedom of speech nevertheless.

Occasional tidbits of useful information do still appear on this list.

>I am against moderation on the list and I aggree that Gilmug is a lying
>cocksucker. Please bear in mind that not everyone on the list is a
>"jew-hating" faggot with nothing but shit between their ears.

I wholeheartedly agree - however anyone who describes himself as a
"cypher punk", after John Gilmore's dishonorable actions, probably is.

---

Dr.Dimitri Vulis KOTM
Brighton Beach Boardwalk BBS, Forest Hills, N.Y.: +1-718-261-2013, 14.4Kbps




