From: user329@ybecker.net
Date: Tue, 8 Jul 1997 01:06:59 -0700 (PDT)
To: user329@ybecker.net
Subject: You Might Find This Interesting & Informative.  I Did.
Message-ID: <011297055501222@g_health.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

                    BIO/TECH NEWS  -  Special Edition

Millions of men and women are dying each year from chronic degenerative
diseases. But today, a growing number of top medical researchers from around
the country believe that many of these tragic deaths might be prevented if
people began oxygenating the cells and tissues of their bodies with a power-
ful but little-known supplement developed for the NASA astronauts called
Stabilized Oxygen. As the BIO/TECH News reveals, scientists have recently
discovered an amazing fact: Many victims of degenerative diseases have one
unusual thing in common -- they have extremely low levels of oxygen in their 
cells, tissues and bloodstream. But the truly good news is that according to
the experts, the benefits of taking Stabilized Oxygen on a daily basis
appear to be: increased oxygen uptake at the cellular level, a dramatic
boost in energy levels, a strengthened immune system, heightened concentration
and alertness, a calming effect on the nervous system, rapid destruction of
infectious bacteria, viruses, fungi, and parasites without harming beneficial
microorganisms needed by the body, greatly enhanced uptake of vitamins,
minerals, and other essential nutrients.

Frankly, we believe that the extraordinary new information contained in this 
powerful issue of the BIO/TECH News is so important to your health and to
your current and future quality of life, that we want you to have this issue
at absolutely  no cost to you. You won't find this kind of vital, completely
unique inside information anywhere else. It's available ONLY in the pages of
the BIO/TECH News.

For information on how you can receive your free copy of the BIO/TECH News,
simply reply "Send BIO/TECH Info" to camelot@savetrees.com and we'll send it to
you immediately upon your request.

                                                            - 30 -








