From: Anonymous <anon@anon.efga.org>
Date: Sun, 7 Sep 1997 10:18:09 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Puppet Masters
Message-ID: <9b9319bba8770ed27d7bb269b97ef995@anon.efga.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain




Sunday, September 07, 1997 - 03:16:32 MET

> > i am getting a very bad feeling that maybe the level of inside/outside
> > censorship of the press may be a good indicator, like the Doomsday 
> > Clock, of how close we are to the day when the Puppet Masters finally
> > step out from behind their masks.
> 
> 	Puppet Masters don't step out from behind thier masks.  They have
> someone else step out for them.
> 
> ~kp


-Creeping encrouchment-Puppet Masters Get Increasingly 
Bold-

With each succeeding assault on the constitutional rights of citizens 
the gov't  both tests and increases the public's willingness to give 
away those rights. As we sit idly by,  parlor intellectualizing, 
anyone who really dares to organize,  gets fried, on national tv for 
the trouble.

Make a timeline from the first live at 5 fry of the 'bad guys' in the 
70s, to the present and observe the circumstances surrounding each 
one.

When they started this- judged on television, fried on television- 
brainwash, they at least tried to put on a semblence of 
justifiability,..ie SLA," kidnappers, bankrobbers,thugs disguised as 
mad dog radicals"..etc and went to great lenghts to see that the 
point was well propagandized to the 'people' and that the 'people' 
accordind to neilson or gallup or somebody, were in consensus and 
then 'puff'', charcoaled the constitution with human kindling before 
EVERYBODIES eyes.

A few op ed pages later, with no real political or social fallout. 
They decide to do it again, and then do it again, upping the ante 
each time.. .the Order, Mt. Carmel, Weaver, etc

...By the time they do the Davidians, they offer specious 
reckless charges that were never substantiated and in fact were 
easily discredited and 85 people burned alive on national tv. people 
who were never charged with any crime-when federal goons 
attempted to serve a specious search warrant as if they were 
marching into lebenon.

The militias of today are saying and doing what the Panthers 
advocated 25 yrs ago. Though each of these groups  held to 
radically different ideologies, the common denomionator is they took 
a stand against an illegal abuse of local and federal power by 
organising into a community of interests that was prepared to defend 
it's right to do so against outside intrusion, and that is whatthe 
puppet masters would not tolerate.

They aren't going to come jackbooting into our cities and towns. 
They are already there, shoving plungers up our ass when they don't 
like the way we look.  They isolate any pocket of dissension (and 
to dare to organize into a community is to dissent) , whether it is 
black, white, christian, islamic or whatever,..can you say 
"cypherpunk".. and burn them out of existence, putting it on tv as an 
object lesson for the rest of us,

The local police, the military, both houses, the administration and 
all the various goon squads are all pigs drinking from the same trough. The presidential elections are a
tv show designed to give us the illusion of a democracy. Its no
accident that the houses reconvene with the new tv season. It is all
for mind control nothing else.

Now I am no christian fundementalist, white supremicist, black power 
fanatic or anything else; just an average person trying to live my 
life simply and freely but the only way things will change is when we 
the 'coach potato sheeple' including intellectual armchair quarterbacks
who think they are superior and above it all because they can run a few 
sentences together, docmartin, airjordan, dingo, nike and ourache our way into 
washington with some plungers of our own and enlighten the fucking white 
house the same way they enlighten us. 

Timothy McVeigh for President Committee-










