From: Brad Dolan <bdolan@USIT.NET>
Date: Sun, 23 Mar 1997 08:09:18 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Interesting Job Offer
Message-ID: <Pine.GSO.3.95.970323110835.21845A-100000@use.usit.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


>From *Nuclear News*, 3/97:

YOUR OFFICE IS THE WORLD

You are interested in the constant changes on the world stage and
you want to become a part of it.  Your workplace becomes this
dynamic world arena when you choose a career as an overseas
Operations Officer with the Central Intelligence Agency.

PUT YOUR TECHNICAL EXPERTISE TO GOOD USE

Right now, we are seeking highly motivated men and women with
degrees in scientific and technical fields.  To qualify, you must
combine proven personal integrity and trustworthiness with
qualifications in:

+ Electrical/Electronic Engineering
+ Computer Science
+ Physics
+ Nuclear Engineering
+ Mathematics

We are particularly interested in individuals with undergraduate
or postgraduate degrees in these disciplines who also have work
experience in telecommunications, satellite communications,
programming, networking, Internet communications or technology-
related R&D efforts.

A UNIQUE CAREER THAT IS NOT FOR EVERYONE

If it's right for you, you'll know it. And you'll know you can't
find it anywhere else.  You must have a strong interest in
international trends and events, in how advanced technologies
impact areas such as international terrorism, narcotics
trafficking, weapons development, world ecology and political
stability.  Apply your technological expertise to support U.S.
security and make a positive difference in our world.

COMBINE ACADEMIC EXCELLENCE WITH STREET SMARTS

It takes more to qualify for this unusual career track than just
technical expertise.  You will be working in multicultural
environments with foreign nationals, so you must be comfortable
and "at home" anywhere in the world.  Excellent written and
verbal communication skills and foreign language proficiency are
essential tools of your trade.  Previous overseas residence or
extensive foreign travel are definite assets.

U.S. citizenship or legal resident status is required.  All
applicants must successfully complete a thorough medical and
psychiatric exam, a polygraph interview and an extensive
background investigation.  The CIA encourages applications from
men and women of every racial and ethnic background from all
parts of the country.

To apply, send your resume, along with a cover letter describing
your interest in working overseas as a CIA Operations Officer. 
We will respond within 30 days if your application is evaluated
as being of interest.

Central Intelligence Agency
Thomas Benning
Dept. YOW-NN397
P.O. Box 12708
Rosslyn Station
Arlington, VA 22209

The CIA is an equal opportunity employer

CAREERS FOR A CHANGING WORLD

Circle Reader Service No. 57






