From: Toto <toto@sk.sympatico.ca>
Date: Sat, 25 Jan 1997 23:57:23 -0800 (PST)
To: Igor Chudov <ichudov@algebra.com>
Subject: Re: overview.htm (fwd)
Message-ID: <199701260757.XAA11026@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Igor Chudov @ home wrote:
> Dale Thorn wrote:
> > My point about the antibiotics is that the male gays take a dis-
> > proportionate amount of them, which compounds their problems. 

> Why do they take antibiotics? Just curious.

  Both male homosexuals and IV drug-users have always suffered from
an inordinate amount of infections, etc., because they are engaging
in physical behavior that Mother Nature had not anticipated, since
the behavior fulfills more of a psychological need than a physical
one.
  Perhaps Mother Nature is homophobic and anti-drug, but, at any 
rate, she did not design the butt-hole to allow virus-free insertion
of outside objects, nor blood-veins to be pierced regularly in
order to insert condensed chemical combinations.
  As a result, those who engage in these behaviors have always had
to deal with the physical effects which result from Nature's 'error'.
IV drug users have always had high incidences of jaundice, etc., 
while male homosexuals have had to contend with various forms of
venereal disease, etc.  In both cases, they end up in a continuing
cycle of antibiotic use.

> Also, I haven't heard that antibiotics were bad for immune system,
> has that been proven?

  There has been great concern raised among those in the medical 
profession regarding the end-effects of their wholesale prescribing
of anitbiotics for colds, aches and pains, etc., leading to the 
development of new strains of virus which are immune to the older
antibiotics. This leads to development of stronger (misused)
antibiotics, which then leads to stronger strains of virus.
  There have been a number of studies which point to the fact that
the human immune system is now caught in a battle between increasingly
potent virus and antibiotics and is losing its capacity to fight
its 'natural' enemies.

  Humans tend to base their 'judgements' on psychological critera.
Thus someone who puts a quart of scotch in their system every day
can turn around and call someone who is putting outside objects 
into their butt-hole a 'pervert' who is doing 'unnatural' things
to their body.
  Personally, I prefer to kill two birds with one stone, so I put
a quart of scotch up my butt-hole every day.

Toto
 
>         - Igor.







