From: Secret Squirrel <nobody@secret.squirrel.owl.de>
Date: Fri, 31 Oct 1997 04:41:22 +0800
To: cypherpunks@Algebra.COM
Subject: Government violates 3rd amendment
Message-ID: <1cf1b6ea2883d8864f5e8eeba48293d2@squirrel>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Sunday 10/26/96

Roby II
Town Hall Meeting

The Town Hall Meeting convened at 2:00 PM as promised at the
Community Center in Auburn, Il. nearly 6 miles east of Roby.

The Community Center was packed. Neighbors from far and wide attended
the meeting which lasted for several hours. At least one attendee, a
local
City Councilman was so incensed after hearing from the neighbors of
Shirley Allen, he offered to contact Judge Slatter in hopes of having
the
court order withdrawn.

Attended by numerous members of the media, this Town Hall Meeting
produced several local neighbors speaking on Shirley's behalf. Even the
lone State Trooper seen "taking down license plate numbers" during the
meeting did not mar this event.  Reportedly, Carolyn Trochman dialed
911 and reported a "suspicious individual" roaming around the vehicles
and demanded that an officer be dispatched to help.  That lone trooper
after seen "talking on his radio" was observed to quickly ceased that
activity.

Speakers onhand included John Trochman and Joyce Riley with impromptu
ballads supplied by singer/songwriter Dave Riddell. Reports indicate a
Ballad For Shirley was born during the meeting and performed by Dave
Riddell.

The Auburn Town Hall meeting was dubbed a success and several neighbors
owning property adjacent to Shirley Allen spoke in her defense so
strongly
that afterwards it was agreed to reconvene at a home NEXT DOOR  to
Shirley Allen.  This caravan, including at least one motor home then
proceeded
to converge at the neighbors home with his invitation and the local
Troopers
had little choice but to allow them into the outer perimeter.  The
meeting was
peaceful and included at least 75 from the Auburn Roby 2 Town Hall
Meeting.

Spirits were lifted near Shirley's home as the second session of the
meeting
continued into the darkness of dusk.  Chants were born and at least one
being shouted by all at the gathering could not help but help the
troopers
on duty realize that this was indeed an effort to help relieve tensions.

The chant born yesterday afternoon was  "BAD COP.....NO DONUTS
..... BADCOP......NO  DONUTS".  Troopers were seen not able to keep
their  "terse" expressions during these chants.

What was accomplished?  "A Lot!" exclaimed Joyce Riley.  "We have at
least one City Councilman whom has since contacted other councilmen and
they will be visiting with Judge Slatter Monday Morning.  The local
neighbor
support for Shirley is overwhelming.  With this kind of support, we can
only
go uphill from here."

More Later on the Success of Roby II


Johnny Johnson
Houston, Texas
(281) 530-5511








