From: John Young <jya@pipeline.com>
Date: Fri, 25 Apr 1997 13:01:00 -0700 (PDT)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Tim's Tag Bi-Line
Message-ID: <1.5.4.32.19970425195754.008a4fe8@pop.pipeline.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


>--Tim May
>
>There's something wrong when I'm a felon under an increasing number of laws.

----------

In response to Tim's tag line and to BXA's claim (twinned
by NSA, FBI, CIA and DoJ) of training Janus crypto-narcs to
snare dual-use miscreants:

http://guru.cosc.georgetown.edu/~denning/cosc511/

Information Warfare: Terrorism, Crime, and National Security

Prof. Dorothy E. Denning

This course will study the nature of information warfare, 
including computer crime and information terrorism, in 
the global information infrastructure as it relates to 
national security, defense policy, economic security, 
organizational security, and personal security. Students 
will gain an understanding of the threats and vulnerabilities, 
including military and economic espionage, denial of service, 
destruction and modification of data, distortion and 
fabrication of information, forgery, control and disruption 
of information flow, electronic bombs, and psyops and 
perception management. They will learn about attacks and 
countermeasures, including authentication, encryption, 
auditing, monitoring, and firewalls, and the limitations 
of those countermeasures. They will learn about cyberspace 
law enforcement and investigations, information warfare and 
the military, and intelligence in the information age. 
Information technology policy and ethics will be examined.

-----

This is not to single out the duality of Professor Denning/Mr. 
Denning. There are several similar dual-use courses being 
taught at civ-mi schools as market-wise institutions-governments
scramble for funds-taxes by promising results to job-needy
scientists-engineers and students-citizens.

Heed the dual-use market/cartel, be an infoartist/informer, an 
inside-lawyer/outlaw; practice selfless public archy, greedy secret
anarchy. That's the ticket for wise guys-gals, go either way as the 
bi-wind blows and stills.






