From: lucifer@dhp.com (lucifer Anonymous Remailer)
Date: Wed, 25 Jun 1997 14:16:28 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: It ain't over till the fatman burns...
Message-ID: <199706250602.CAA02284@dhp.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Paul Bradley wrote:
> 
> > I still am concerned about kids being subject to material that is
> > inappropriate for their age group (what ever that may be).  So how do I
> > insure that my son/daugher does not get their hands on _THIS_ material?
> 
> Supervision, plain and simple. However, if you honestly believe your
> children are going to be harmed in some lasting way by any images they
> might find there is clearly something wrong with the way you have brought
> them up

  Good, strong beatings will also help to deter them from doing
things that they find interesting or pleasurable. This will help
to reinforce the concept that things which feel good lead to
pain and punishment.
  Pictures of people burning in hell can be put in prominent places
in the home, with constant verbal reminders that God will punish
bad people who have different values than you.

  It is particularly important to impress on your daughter that
she must keep her head covered at all times and never look a
strange man in the eye or allow her ankles to show. Remind her
that, as much as you love her, you will still be forced to
join in stoning her to death if she choses to stray outside
acceptable social standards.
  Impress upon your son that if he wants to have sex with 
teenage girls under the age of 18 he must move to a foreign 
country where he can receive millions of dollars in foreign
aide while he does so. Explain that if he has sex with his
teenage girlfriend in this country that he is an evil person
and will be convicted as a sex offender (which will delay
their wedding plans) and be marked for life as a child 
molester.

  Most important of all, carefully explain to your children
that if their gaze ever happens to fall upon material which
you find unacceptable that they will end up being murdering,
drug-dealing pornographers because they are immoral dupes
with no character or self-will.
  Use Paul and myself as examples of where libertarian thinking
leads, in the end. After all, he is writing from DEMON.co.uk and
I am writing from LUCIFER@dhp.com.

  If you are concerned about what your children may encounter
on the internet that will expose their lack of character and
morals, there is a program available that is even better than
Cybersitter. It was sent to the list by fuck@yourself.up a few
months ago.
  Check the archives for it or ask the cypherpunks list's
on-call librarian, Tim C. May, how to find it.

FlameMonger






