From: Tim May <tcmay@got.net>
Date: Thu, 13 Nov 1997 10:03:13 +0800
To: cypherpunks@Algebra.COM
Subject: Mad as Hell
Message-ID: <v03102801b08ffcdcfb0f@[207.167.93.63]>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain




Several swirling themes here....

* More versions of the CDA...which the Supreme Court may let stand. (Cf. my
comments about "death by a thousand cuts" and the Constitution, which is
being "exceptioned" and "reinterpreted" into oblivion.)

* Crypto legislation is far from dead...it is just dormant right now.

* Game theoretically, Congress and the other bureaucrats win by expanding
the number and scope of laws. There is little constituency for lessening
the number and scope of laws, despite public opinion.

* Anti-militia rhetoric continues, with politicians saying militias must be
reigned in. (See misc.activism.militia for many examples.)

* The U.N. is trying to get the U.S. to "ban racism." Meaning, ban free
choice in whom one hires (already the case with Title 7 of the Civil Rights
Act, despite what this means for freedom of association). Meaning, place
even more limits on free speech. Meaning, pass laws against certain
organizations.

(If Paladin is upheld, expect more use of the civil law system to put
various clubs and organizations out of business.)

* And so it goes. More laws, more prisons, more pressure points on us all.

But the public is getting fed up. Here in my state of California we
decisively shot down the use of hiring quotas and admissions quotas based
on race. And the courts have upheld this. The free ride for unqualified
minorities and "people of color" is over, at least here in California. (And
a dozen or so other states are considering similar moves.)

Right-wing talk show hosts are more popular than ever.

Here's just the latest example, in the article below. The article makes
some good points.  Note especially the part about the murder of Donald
Scott, the guy murdered in his bedroom by BATFag agents.

No doubt Bob Hettinga thinks my mention of this case is dangerous, that
good little bunny rabbits don't make Big Brother angry. Well, I will say
what I said before: the BATF and LA County Sheriffs responsible and
involved in this case should be tried in a criminal court, should be
convicted (based on what I have seen), and they should then be sentenced to
die in the gas chamber at San Quentin. This is, after all, what they do to
gang bangers who shoot up liquor stores. Cops should face execution. In
this case, a mass execution of the dozen raiding officers would send a
strong message to other cops.)

Here's the item:


Hollywood Producer Says "Enough Is Enough!

                       AARON RUSSO IS MAD AS HELL


Aaron Russo, the Hollywood producer who produced The Rose with Bette
Midler and Trading Places with Eddie Murphy is now on a crusade to
wake up Americans to the wholesale assault on their liberties being
launched by governments at every level.

"America is becoming a totalitarian police state!" thunders Aaron
Russo as he paces back and forth across the stage of the colorful
"Mad As Hell" TV talk show set. He's not at all happy with the
sinister turn that America has taken in recent years and, like the
name of the new show, he is "Mad as Hell." But he's determined to do
something about it - and that is what "Mad As Hell" is all about.

A pilot for the show, including the above scene, is being
aggressively marketed to the networks and cable channels. Preview
showings of the show have drawn full houses in Las Vegas and Los
Angeles and Russo's angry outbreaks have provoked wild, enthusiastic
response wherever he goes. It appears that Russo isn't the only one
who's "Mad as Hell."

The theme of the first pilot, which was sent to ISIL staff for
evaluation, featured interviews and vignettes with Frances Plante
Scott; Brenda Grantland president of FEAR (Forfeiture Endangers
Americans' Rights), and Judy Osburn, herself a victim of civil
forfeiture and author of the book Spectre of Forfeiture.

Frances Plante Scott told of her chilling ordeal with Park Service
officials attempting to seize their ranch and of the SWAT team raid
in which her husband, Donald Scott, was shot to death by
trigger-happy police. Ventura and Los Angeles County Sheriffs, D.E.A.
and the Park Service were all vying to get a piece of the action and
seize the valuable property using trumped up marijuana charges (there
was no marijuana - as if it mattered). Following this event, Ms.
Scott's ranch house was burned in the Malibu firestorm and later was
subjected to punitive harassment by the IRS.

Colorado state Senator Charles Duke, also in the studio audience,
spoke about the 10th Amendment Sovereignty Resolution, a modern
version of Magna Carta designed to force a constitutional showdown
with the federal government. At this point in time 22 states have
emulated Duke by passing the resolution in their states. Duke,
incidentally, is scheduled as a speaker at the ISIL world conference
this August (see our conference web page).

The video ends with an eloquent statement on modern slavery by Rod
Taylor.

In mid-June, ISIL pres. Vince Miller, Exec. VP Jim Elwood, and Board
Member Jarret Wollstein had a meeting with Aaron Russo to discuss the
terrible dangers facing America today. We all agreed that a majority
of people have been kept almost completely in the dark regarding the
massive abuses of police power in this country.

I remembered the joke about how the govenment must think we are all
mushrooms because they seem to enjoy keeping us in the dark and
feeding us horseshit.

"How could they know," I exclaimed. "The national media is as
controlled as Pravda in the old Soviet Union."
Any real news is scrupulously excised from national news sources and
the waves of government propaganda are so pervasive that even some of
our own members believe the government line in spite of themselves
and think we have lost our marbles.

We agreed that there must be a vehicle for a wake-up-call - and
Russo's new program could be the ticket.

Russo also talked of establishing, with the assistance of ISIL, a
massive early-warning fax network to warn citizens of dangerous
legislation about to be passed. He has also created an action manual
with the phone and fax numbers of Members of Congress so that you will
know at whom to vent your wrath

With ISIL's world wide communications network - computer, fax, phone -
plus a network of correspondents we will be able to feed the data and
expose abuses of power before they get off the ground. A merchandise
line with caps, t-shirts with the blazing "Mad As Hell" logo is also
planned.

Stay tuned for more developments in fuure issues of the FNN.


FREEDOM NETWORK NEWS
International Society for Individual Liberty - The World's Foremost Liberty
Network

Editor: Vincent H. Miller * Assistant Editors: James R. Elwood * Tim Starr
* Anton Sherwood * Mark Valverde * June/July 1996






