From: nobody@huge.cajones.com (Huge Cajones Remailer)
Date: Fri, 6 Jun 1997 05:18:22 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Kill the children!
Message-ID: <199706052104.OAA03298@fat.doobie.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



 When the United States Government murdered the child of Saddam Hussein
the common American attitude was "broken eggs, and all that." I know
because I lamented the act and was roundly criticized as an idiot who
didn't understand how the real world works, etc., etc, justify, justify.
 When the chickens come home to roost, however, after yet another U.S.
Government act of aggression, there is a great hue and cry throughout
the land about only a "monster" could kill children. Suddenly, the lives
of children become so precious and sacrosanct that those responsible for
taking those lives must be given supreme punishment.

  God bless Timothy McVeigh for exposing the mindless hypocrisy of the
American people, as well as the _mindful_ hypocrisy of the Government
Rulers of Amerika.
  Billy Graham, as the populist representative of Christianity, visits
the White House but we are little likely to see him visiting McVeigh
because some children's lives seem to be more precious than others, and
those who take them are subject to different moral judgments.

 A famous newspaper correspondent received a telegram from his editor
questioning his expense report, which listed a huge bill for a breakfast
which included caviar.
 The reporter telegraphed back, "Eggs is eggs."

 The message of the American people and the U.S. Government is being
received loud and clear: "American eggs are more precious than foreign
eggs. The eggs of _normal_ (translate=="mainstream") Americans are more 
precious than _aberrant_ (translate--"cult") eggs."
 The message of the American news media is loud and clear: "Break some
lifeless buildings with your bombs and we will make you a side dish in
the back pages of some minor publication. Break enough eggs and we will
make an omlette big enough to feed the entire world."

 Waco was nothing more than a "wake-up call" that many Americans slept
through. Timothy MvVeigh did not--he woke up and crowed loud enough for
all of us to hear. The American government, people and press, however,
want merely to shut him up and go back to sleep, pretending that there
still isn't enough light to see their own sins and rectify them.
 There are no telling how many lives could be saved if the press wrote
meaningfully about the inevitability of chickens coming home to roost
instead of supporting the notion that the solution to a crowing cock is
to cut his head off.
 There are other roosters in the barnyard. There will be more sunrises.

 Americans are now loudly calling for McVeigh to receive an electrical
message complaining about the high cost of the breakfast bill on the 
expense report he provided us.
 I wouldn't be surprised if his final words were, "Eggs is eggs."

Anne Accountant





