From: Robert Hettinga <rah@shipwright.com>
Date: Wed, 27 Aug 1997 06:02:03 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Openings for INFOSEC Analyst and Engineers
Message-ID: <v031107b2b028f4717dc9@[139.167.130.248]>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain




--- begin forwarded text


X-Authentication-Warning: silence.secnet.com: majordom set sender to
owner-security-jobs@secnet.com using -f
From: "Meryweather, Rod" <Rod.Meryweather@wang.com>
To: "'security-jobs@secnet.com'" <security-jobs@secnet.com>
Subject: Openings for INFOSEC Analyst and Engineers
Date: Mon, 25 Aug 1997 13:43:14 -0400
X-Priority: 3
MIME-Version: 1.0
Sender: owner-security-jobs@secnet.com
Precedence: bulk

WANG GOVERNMENT SERVICES
SECURITY SERVICES
POSITION OVERVIEW AND SUMMARY

Organization Overview
The Wang GS Security Services organization is a descendant from the
Honeywell Information Systems group that has been focused on developing
High Assurance computing solutions for the US Government since the late
1970's.  Honeywell was the first vendor to have a system evaluated by
the NSA National Computer Security Center (NCSC) against the Orange Book
(a document that defines levels of trust that can be reached by
operating systems) at the A1 level - the highest - in 1984.  Our XTS 300
product is a direct descendent of the A1 SCOMP platform, and is
currently evaluated at the B3 level of trust.

The Security Services (SS) organization focuses on development and
deployment of secure solutions.   Product activities are contained in a
group focused on the XTS 300 operating system and a trusted guard
development framework product (the SAGE).  The rest of the organization
is focused on implementation of task-specific solutions.  These
currently include:

DLA Security Assessment:  Wang currently supports the security planning,
assessment and accreditation activities with the DLA and the Defense
MegaCenter in Dayton, Ohio.

The DMS/DII Guard:  This is a multi-year development effort that will
result in a XTS 300-based X.400/X.500 guard with strong user
authentication and encryption support (FORTEZZA).

The State Department Guard:  This is a new project that will implement a
proprietary (State-compliant) XTS 300-based telegram network guard that
works with identification of unclassified telegrams.

The Command and Control Guard:  The C2G effort involves the evolution of
an existing XTS 300-based Government-owned Guard application that is
deployed world-wide.

The FBI:  Wang currently has developed and deployed multiple IBM
communications guards for the FBI, and continues to evolve and enhance
the functional capabilities of these XTS 300-based systems.

The IRS:  This effort does not involve the XTS 300.  Rather, Wang is
responsible for the EDI telecommunications and security infrastructure
of the IRS Tax Collection system, based on an NCR commercial Unix
platform.

General Technical Requirements
Excellent C and Unix skills (we do not code in C++ except for the IRS
project).  Strong structured design and documentation skills.  Linux OS
on Pentium workstation.  Heavy emphasis on one of the following areas:
Computer Security, Unix Kernel (device drivers, printer drivers, API, OS
construction), Communications (TCP/IP, X.400, X.500, SNMP), Encryption
(PCMCIA or software-based), GUI development (X), Testing.  MUST be
clearable to TS.  MUST have a BS degree or equivalent experience.  MUST
be a self-starter and quick learner.   Competitive compensation and
benefits, casual dress code, technical organization.  Herndon location
as of August 1, 1997.  See
http://www.wangfed.com/products/ssso/homepage.html          for product
details, http://wang.com            for information about Wang.

Specific Positions

INFOSEC Accredidation & Risk Assessment

Candidate will be a member of the DLA Security Architecture team, and
will be responsible for taking a lead role in the security assessment,
certification, accreditation, and post accreditation of  large
multifaceted LAN's/WAN's conducting  EC/EDI communications on a global
bases. Required 4-12 years experience with trusted system solutions and
architectures. Strong back ground in National Computer Security Center
"Rainbow Series" and Information Systems Security (INFOSEC) policies,
procedures and documentation experience.


Accreditation Support/Risk Assessment

Candidate will be a member of the DMS/DII Guard Development and
Deployment team, and will be responsible for taking a lead role in the
assessment and justification of the assurance of the Guard architecture.
Required 6-12 years experience with trusted solutions and architectures,
X.400/X.500, accreditation and deployment issues.  Strong documentation
and communications (verbal) experience.


Senior OS Developer (1)

Candidate will be a member of the XTS 300 OS development staff, and
should have considerable exposure (8-15 years) to the construction and
enhancement of a Unix OS.  Activities include API development and
enhancement, device driver implementation (e.g., printer, SCSI,
"console", PCMCIA devices, ethernet (802.3 + 100Mb or ATM)), application
porting (e.g., X), bug fixes, and new platform porting (from one Pentium
mother board to the next).  Orange Book security a BIG plus.

Junior OS Developer (2)

Candidate will be a member of the XTS 300 OS development staff, and
should be very comfortable with heavy structured C and Unix (OS
construction, release building from source, etc.)  Linux experience a
big plus.  2-5 years experience with heavy C, Unix, and at least one of
the following:  GUI development, application porting on Unix,
communications (TCP/IP, X.4/500, SNMP),  systems installation and debug,
heavy scripts, heavy testing. Orange Book security a BIG plus.

XTS 300 GUI Developer

Candidate will initially be assigned to the State Department Guard task,
and will be responsible for the specification, design, development,
implementation, testing and documentation of the man-machine interfaces
for this Guard (Main-in-the-Middle review capability, dirty word list
management, report generation, etc.).  This will be developed with a
subset of X (Motif-based).  3-5 years experience in X, C, Unix,
documentation, design.

All salaries are dependent on experience and are negotiable.

Open Date : 8/18/97			Close Date: 1/31/98

Point of Contact:

	Rodney Meryweather			Ph:        (703)
827-3818
	Sr. Security Analyst			Fax:      (703) 827-3161
	Wang Government Services		Email:
Rod.Meryweather@wang.com
	540 Huntmar Dr.
	Herndon VA. 22070

Sr. XTS Applications Developer (3)

Candidate will be a member of the XTS 300 Application Development focus
group, and will be responsible for a lead role in the development of
Guard applications.  Must have 8-15 years heavy C, Unix, Comm (TCP/IP,
X.4/500), structured design, documentation, development, implementation,
testing, debug and support.  Orange Book Security and Guard/Firewall
design a big plus.

Jr. XTS Applications Developer (3)

Candidate will be a member of the XTS 300 Application Development focus
group, and will be responsible for a supporting role in the development
of Guard applications.  Must have 2-5 years heavy C, Unix, with a focus
in one or more of the following: Comm (TCP/IP, X.4/500), structured
design, documentation, development, implementation, testing, debug and
support.  Orange Book Security and Guard/Firewall design a big plus.

All salaries are dependent on experience and are negotiable.

Open Date : 8/18/97			Close Date: 1/31/98

Point of Contact:

	Rodney Meryweather			Ph:        (703)
827-3818
	Sr. Security Analyst			Fax:      (703) 827-3161
	Wang Government Services		Email:
Rod.Meryweather@wang.com
	540 Huntmar Dr.
	Herndon VA. 22070

--- end forwarded text



-----------------
Robert Hettinga (rah@shipwright.com), Philodox
e$, 44 Farquhar Street, Boston, MA 02131 USA
"... however it may deserve respect for its usefulness and antiquity,
[predicting the end of the world] has not been found agreeable to
experience." -- Edward Gibbon, 'Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire'
The e$ Home Page: http://www.shipwright.com/






