From: List-Owner <sara@diacenter.org>
Date: Tue, 18 Mar 1997 10:51:03 -0800 (PST)
Subject: Dia_Press_Release.Donegan_Web_Project
Message-ID: <199703181255.MAA21310@diacenter.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Dia Center for the Arts press release 3/12/97   

Cheryl Donegan: Studio Visit



Studio Visit, a work for the world wide web by Cheryl Donegan, will be

launched on March 20, 1997, at http://www.diacenter.org/donegan/. For

Studio Visit, Donegan has put together a visually rich and playful

interface constructed from imagery she has utilized in her studio practice.

Film frames, TV screens, thumb prints, detergent bottles, and Newport

cigarette's advertising campaign are some of the sources of the motifs she

adopted and recreated for the site. Studio Visit also includes a series of

images of Donegan at work in her studio over the course of a day. Opting

for "low-tech" tricks, she has created an interactive experience from a

combination of gif animations, frames, refreshes, mouse-overs and other

devices inherent to the web.



Donegan's previous work has encompassed video, painting and performance,

often putting an ironic and irreverent spin on conventions of art practice

and art history. For example, several of her videos portray the artist

executing simple, conceptual performances which result in paintings or

drawings generated by various parts of her body. In Studio Visit, Donegan

has transformed her experimentation with the language of painting into the

medium of the web with wit and humor.



Cheryl Donegan was born in New Haven, Connecticut in 1962, and studied at

the Rhode Island School of Design in Providence and at Hunter College in

New York. Her first one-person show was at the Elizabeth Koury Gallery in

New York in 1993, with more recent solo exhibitions at Basilico Fine Arts

in New York, Galerie Rizzo in Paris, and currently, at the Baumgartner

Gallery in Washington, D.C. She has exhibited widely in group shows in the

United States and Europe. One of her works is currently on view at the

Museum of Modern Art in "Young and Restless," an exhibition of contemporary

video art by young artists working in New York City.



Dia Center for the Arts is a tax-exempt charitable organization.

Established in 1974, the organization has become one of the largest in the

United States dedicated to contemporary art and contemporary culture. In

fulfilling this commitment, Dia sustains diverse programming in poetry,

arts education, and critical discourse and debate via lectures and

symposia.



In addition, it maintains on a long-term basis works of art not easily

accommodated by conventional museums. Dia serves as a conduit for realizing

these projects, as intimated by the Greek word from which it takes its

name. Dia's long-term projects include Joseph Beuys's 7000 Oaks; Walter De

Maria's The Broken Kilometer, The Lightning Field, and The New York Earth

Room; La Monte Young and Marian Zazeela's Dream House and The Dan Flavin

Art Institute; Cy Twombly Gallery; and the Andy Warhol Museum.



Current programs are supported in part by funds from the National Endowment

for the Arts; the New York State Council on the Arts; and the New York City

Department of Cultural Affairs; The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the

Federal Republic of Germany through the German Consulate General of New

York; Axe-Houghton Foundation; The Bohen Foundation; The Brown Foundation;

The Cowles Charitable Trust; The Getty Grant Program; The Graham Foundation

for Advanced Studies in the Fine Arts; Lannan Foundation; Robert Lehman

Foundation, Inc.; The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation; Arthur Ross Foundation;

The Juliet Lea Hillman Simonds Foundation; Lila Acheson Wallace Theater

Fund at Community Funds, Inc.; AT&T; Calvin Klein, Inc.; The Chase

Manhattan Bank; Hachette Filipacchi Magazines; Philip Morris Companies

Inc.; Tag Heuer; Wenner Media Inc.; and the individual members of the Dia

Art Council.



For information about this and other Dia programs, please contact Jennie Prebor

at tel: (212) 989-5566, fax: (212) 989-4055, e-mail: jennie@diacenter.org      

Dia Center for the Arts                                                        

542 West 22nd Street, New York, NY                                             

http://www.diacenter.org                                                       

To unsubscribe from this list, please send a message to webmaster@diacenter.org 

with "unsubscribe press list" in the subject.







