From: "Vladimir Z. Nuri" <vznuri@netcom.com>
Date: Fri, 19 Sep 1997 03:24:48 +0800
To: Tim May <tcmay@got.net>
Subject: y2k as ideological opportunity
In-Reply-To: <v03102802b04709533c46@[207.167.93.63]>
Message-ID: <199709181916.MAA17831@netcom13.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain




the y2k question with regards to the government has a key
question: suppose computers start cranking out nonsense.
how fast can each problem be fixed? the IRS has armies
of people *right*now* that do nothing but fix problems
created by the computers. how far would this force go
toward fixing all y2k problems? not far, I imagine. but
one thing that Gary North is not emphasizing a lot is
that the big question is how fast new forces can be mobilized
when the government finds itself in a crisis. it is
true at the current rate it looks dismal for the govt to
fix the problems in time, but govt has huge amounts of 
monetary resources to throw at problems when it wants to.
does anyone have any idea how much cash sloshes around in
defense industries? 

sure, the computers may go haywire
for a few days, or a few weeks, but this may not have
a noticeable impact on govt as usual. the govt has an
army of clerks that can be mobilized to do by hand much
of what is required. it is a small force, but what I am pointing
out is that this is not a black-or-white success-failure
proposition. the government is  notoriously ingenious at
"limping along" on limited resources!!

===

this is my call out to PROGRAMMERS not to work on projects
that you don't consider ideologically valid. let's start
a movement in which "intellectual capital" refuses to be
routed toward supporting oppressive, self-perpetuating,
dying welfare-state institutions.  imagine a worldwide
programmer union or movement in which programmers refuse
to work on y2k problems in the government and refuse to
work on other projects they do not support, no matter what
the money. 

they say that every man has his price.
integrity has no price!! imagine, would you turn down any
amount of money to work on the corrupt state mechanisms?
this is exactly what is required to bring them down. as
long as they can continue to bribe the populace with its
own money, they will continue.





