From: Dave Emery <die@pig.die.com>
Date: Wed, 2 Apr 1997 22:36:28 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: BIG BROTHER (qoute without comment)
Message-ID: <199704030636.BAA12147@pig.die.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text


----- Forwarded message from A.Fullerton -----

anonymous wrote:

 I've got a little story I'd like to tell.
 There's been a thread in the scanner newsgroups lately about Radio
Shack
 giving their sales lists to the FBI. Now, I KNOW a lot of baloney
 circulates through the newsgroups. This particular thread is said to
 have started with the Richard Jewell Atlanta bombing case when the FBI
 investigated electronics parts purchases at Radio Shack. And, I don't
 break the law with my scanner, so I don't care who knows that I have
 one. But let me tell a story that happened about a month ago.
 I got up very early one morning and turned on my scanner and heard the
 police that serve the warrants ("We like to pick up everyone before
 breakfast" is a quote from a local warrant server). The dispatcher said
 that the FBI had located a friend of mine who was staying in a local
 Motel 6 and that there was a warrant for his arrest. He was picked up
 (it was a mistake) and when he asked how they knew he was there, they
 told him that Motel 6 gives their guest list to the FBI every day. I
 could not belive this! I told him that there was any number of ways
that
 they could have found him. But about a week ago, I heard one of the
 warrant servers say something about Motel 6 and their FBI arrangement.
I
 am absolutely appalled that this goes on. I don't appreciate the fact
 that if I stay at any motel, that an FBI agent might view my name on a
 guest list.
 It's nobody's business where I sleep (or buy a battery from an
 ill-informed salesman).
 Whew........I feel better.
 Thanks for allowing me to rant.
 I posted a similar post to the thread in the newsgroup (anonymously) so
 escuse me if you've already read this.
 Thanks,
 Andy Fullerton

----- End of forwarded message from A.Fullerton -----




