From: "Pretty Lousy Remailer" <plm@dv.nl>
Date: Wed, 30 Jul 1997 17:00:07 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: [NEWS}: "Jim Bell to Face More Prison Time than Pol Pot"
Message-ID: <199707300846.CAA14357@wombat.sk.sympatico.ca>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Tim May wrote:
> 
> Reuter, Seattle: In an ironic twist, notorious info-terrorist and thought
> criminal James Dalton Bell is expected to be imprisoned longer than former
> Khmer Rouge leader Pol Pot will be imprisoned in Cambodia.

  This Tim May guy seems to be some kind of wise-guy/troublemaker.
  He obviously doesn't understand the difference between a respected
world-leader and an average citizen.

> Reached for comment, U.S. Deputy Assistant Persecutor Francine P. Malveaux
> admitted that Bell's punishment is indeed harsher than that befalling Pol
> Pot, accused of ordering the killing of 3 million Cambodians from 1975 to
> 1979. She said, "But Bell confessed to his crimes, and Pol Pot just took
> the Fifth, so Mr. Pot was actually not convicted of anything more serious
> than selling contraband copies of "Zap Comix," which his rebel band was
> smuggling in from Myanmar."

  What Mr. May fails to mention, in his pathetic attempt to mislead his
readers, is that those 3 million Cambodians that Pol Pot eliminated were
all terrorists, child-pornographers and drug dealers. These actions were
necessary in order to protect "national dictatorship" and to meet the
"legitimate needs of dictatorship."
 
> FBI Director Louis Unfreeh acknowledges the harsh treatment Bell is
> receiving is meant as a deterrent. "We are looking into the possibility of
> inviting Mr. Pot to come to the United States after he completes his 3
> months of community service...we'd like him to advise us on our growing
> internal security problems," he noted.

  Despite Mr. May's snide sarcasm, ask yourself, "Who would I rather
have
acting as the new CypherPunks list moderator--Pol Pot or Jim Bell?"
  The choice is obvious.
 
> Bell could not be reached for comment.

  Bell also could not be reached when the President tried to contact him
to arrange a pardon in return for his methamphetamine recipe. Clinton,
clutching a needle and spoon in his hand, stated, "I tried speed once,
but I didn't inhale."
  Reports indicate that the Public Defender representing Bell told him,
"The _Bad_News_ is that I sold you down the river. The _Good_News_ is
that I'm getting a promotion and a tax refund next year."

  Tim C. May would have us believe that some no-account loser who only
fantasized about murdering his enemies should be given the same respect
and consideration as a world-leader who had the courage and character
needed to put his ideas into action.
  If Mr. May was not too lazy to check the mainstream media archives,
he would be aware that Pol Pot was sentenced to "house arrest." If
Mr. May was did not consider himself so high-and-mighty that he thinks
it beneath him to suck a little D.C. cock for inside information, he
would also be aware that the "house" Pol Pot will be confined to is
the "Whitehouse" and that he will be sleeping in the Lincoln bedroom
as a result of his generous donation of gold-tooth fillings to the
next Democratic election campaign.

  CypherPunks list readers should be aware that Tim C. May's hidden
agenda is to subvert national security by working in the interests
of privacy, freedom and liberty, at the expense of "we the sheeple."
  If we allow anarchists and terrorists such as Mr. May and his
cohorts to interfere with the "legitimate needs of fucking the 
citizens over and remaining in power," then we can expect to be 
faced with chaos and lawlessness, with CypherPunks destroying
government property by dumping Clipper Chips into Boston Harbor.

  Believe Tim C. May's lies, if you will, but you cannot deny that
Pol Pot's execution of 3 million Cambodians serves to affirm that
he was, indeed, "tough on crime." That, alone, should get him 
elected as the next Congressman from Arizona.

FrissellMonger

XXX---YYY---ZZZ---XXX---YYY---ZZZ---XXX---YYY---ZZZ---XXX---YYY---ZZZ---
This email was forwarded by the "Pretty Lousy Remailer." If you wish to
know who sent it, check the headers. "PLR" has no interest in protecting
the identity of anonymous cowards such as Queen Elizabeth II.
XXX---YYY---ZZZ---XXX---YYY---ZZZ---XXX---YYY---ZZZ---XXX---YYY---ZZZ---





