From: Jim Choate <ravage@einstein.ssz.com>
Date: Tue, 21 Jan 1997 21:55:47 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Nikola Tesla
Message-ID: <199701220555.VAA19005@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Forwarded message:

> Date: Tue, 21 Jan 1997 22:39:48 -0500
> From: John Young <jya@pipeline.com>
> Subject: Seismic Crypto
> 
> In a NYT report today on a "mysterious" blast in the
> Australian outback in 1993, there's mention of "seismic
> weapons" and research on them by Nicholas Tesla
> in the 1930s.

First, it's Nikola Tesla. At least do the man the honor of getting his name
correct (he is a personal hero of mine), I mean he ONLY invented the AC
power system we use today, the first commercial power generation plant at
Niagra Falls in the world, the first torpedo which he sold to the Russians
because the USN was too stupid to buy it, radio, remote control via radio,
wireless power transmission, etc...

Second, there is a LOT of hogwash attributed to Nikola which he in actuality
never worked on (ie death rays, flying saucers to the interior of the Earth,
etc.). If you would like to learn more about him then check out
"The Writings and Inventions of Nikola Tesla", it was proofed by him prior
to its publication. You will also find in most bookstores a copy of all his
American patents in "The Collected Patents of Nikola Tesla". I apologize for
not providing ISBN's but my copies are 30 miles away in my shop being used
to build Tesla Coils. I would strongly suggest avoiding the Tesla Society as
it is, in my opinion, populated by a bunch of UFO and conspiracy crazies
(though a small percentage of their articles are useable).

His work on 'artificial earthquakes' dealt with his studies on mechanical
coupling between tuned oscillators. He was finaly 'asked' to leave because
he would get 4-5 square block areas of New York rocking, much to the chagrin
of the residents, by coupling pile-driver like oscillators to the building
he lived in.


                                                       Jim Choate
                                                       CyberTects
                                                       ravage@ssz.com






