From: 77574525@msn
Date: Thu, 3 Jul 1997 21:06:29 -0700 (PDT)
To: friend3x@public.com
Subject: Free investment information!
Message-ID: <199700070025.gaa08056>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


DON NOT CLICK REPLY, IT WILL NOT WORK, USE LINKS LISTED BELOW IN MESSAGE

Natural gas futures contracts on the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) have 
hit record high levels for the past two years in the winter months.  But why?

The answer lies in the simple economic principle of supply and demand.  Winter 
brings with it colder temperatures and an increased demand for Natural Gas.  
Also, "just-in-time" inventory management practices have been adopted widely 
in the energy industry.  Corporate attempts to cut costs of stockpiling have 
led to lower supplies.

That was the past; what does the future hold?
No one can answer that question with absolute certainty.  However, key 
indicators appear to be pointing to another significant move in the price of 
Natural Gas going into the winter months.  First, demand for Natural Gas has 
been increased by the U.S. adding over 1.5 million new Natural Gas heating 
units in 1996.  Second, the American Gas Association reported that supplies in 
underground storage are only at 38% of the total nationwide capacity.  
Illustrating the point made earlier about the Corporations trying to keep 
costs of stockpiling low to possibly boost earnings for stockholders.

What is the profit potential?
An investment of $5,000 and a $.50 realized gain in the value of your Natural 
Gas options could return as much $25,000.

How realistic is it that the price of Natural Gas will move $.50?
The average seasonal price increase over the last seven years of trading 
Natural Gas futures contracts has been $1.44.  The smallest seasonal move was 
$.51 and the largest move $2.86. 

How do I receive my free information on the Natural Gas and other futures 
markets?
Very easily; just send an email to nmp123@lostvegas.com including :
*Name
*Address
*Phone
*Best time to call
(No packages can be sent without this information and please place Natural Gas 
in the subject or body of the message.)

A Series-3 registered broker will call to confirm the request for information. 
 All brokers are registered with and regulated by the National Futures 
Assoc.(NFA) and the Commodities Futures Trading Commission(CFTC).
  
Please only serious inquiries.

Past performance is not necessarily indicative of future results.  You could 
lose part or all of your investment.  However, when purchasing options your 
risk is predetermined to the amount you invest.  Commissions and fees will 
impact the total amount returned to the client.  Options do not move dollar 
for dollar with the underlying futures contract until expiration date.

If you would like to be removed from our mailing list please send an email to: 
 nmp123@lostvegas.com.  Please place remove in the subject or body of the 
letter.









