From: John Young <jya@pipeline.com>
Date: Wed, 21 May 1997 23:21:26 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Mil-LE Forensic Tools
Message-ID: <1.5.4.32.19970521145404.009012a4@pop.pipeline.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


>From the NTI Web site, http://www.secure-data.com

Free downloads:

Forensic Tools

The FILTER Forensic Tool:

This program is used to remove binary (non alpha-numeric) characters 
from computer data. This program has been used internationally by 
military and law enforcement agencies for years and was donated to the 
law enforcement community by one of our founders back in 1991. Once a 
file has been processed with this program the content can be printed 
and viewed with more traditional types of programs, e.g. word processors. 
This program should not be confused with NTI's intelligent filter 
program. ...

The NTIDOC Forensic Tool:

This program is used to essentially take an electronic snap shot of 
files and subdirectories that have previously been identified to have 
some evidentiary value. It is a documentation tool. The program 
automatically creates documentation that can easily be printed, viewed 
or merged into forensic reports. The original program entitled DOC has 
been used for years by military and law enforcement computer specialists 
and has previously been donated for that use by the founders of NTI. ...

The SPACES Security Review Tool:

This program is very simple. It creates one or more files that contain 
nothing but spaces. To be exact, every file created by this program 
will contain 10,000 spaces. Such output is ideal in the evaluation of 
encryption patterns to determine security weakness. Our forensic 
training courses and cryptography courses cover this concept in detail. 

MICRO-ID Computer Theft Prevention Software:

This software is used to mark computer hard disk drives with computer 
ownership information. Once a computer has been marked it can be 
identified by police should it be recovered as stolen property. The 
program that reads the ownership information is called COP-ONLY and as 
the name implies the program is only distributed to local, county and 
state law enforcement agencies. ...

----------





