From: Adam Back <aba@dcs.ex.ac.uk>
Date: Mon, 9 Jun 1997 01:10:21 +0800
To: whgiii@amaranth.com
Subject: IRA (was Re: [CONTROVERSIAL]: A Defense of Terrorism)
In-Reply-To: <199706081214.HAA02893@mailhub.amaranth.com>
Message-ID: <199701081748.RAA00773@server.test.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain




William Geiger <whgiii@amaranth.com> writes
> Paul Bradley <paul@fatmans.demon.co.uk> writes:
> >I live in mainland England. NI, although still violent, is now not the 
> >only place bombed by the IRA, until a few years ago they mainly attacked 
> >targets in NI, they now bomb all over the country.
> 
> Well I can only see this as a good thing. :)
> 
> It is the people of England that support that illegal occupation of Irish
> soil by Brittish troops. It is only right that they should have to suffer
> the consequences.

Personally I would be happy for all UK police and military forces to
pull out of Northern Ireland.  Give it back to them, see if I care.
What difference can it make to me?  Foreign intervention is a waste of
time in my book.

However, here are a few things you might be interested to know.  I
understand the majority of people in Northern Ireland do not want to
be part of Southern Ireland.  The people in NI have been there for
multiple generations, and probably also don't want to be relocated to
England.  Many of these people are English descent and their ancestors
where given land by the British government which was stolen from
native Irish about 300 years ago.  They have also intermarried.
British government was brutal at that time, before they turned soft
and lost their empire.  (You might see parallels with the US, where
you guys are also living on stolen property).

Perhaps most NI people would not actually be that badly off if they
were part of SI.

You should also realise that IRA and supporters are minority in NI
today, for a sense of perspective.

In the mean time the IRA and the opposing paramilitary organisation
blow up, assasinate, knee-cap each other, protestants, catholics, joy
riders, and a few innocent bystanders, and I think both deal in drugs,
and are involved in organised crime to fund their activities.  IRA
makes attempts to blow up UK politicians.  Managed to smuggle rocket
launcher in van with hole cut in roof to within a few hundred yards of
10 Downing St.  But they missed.  (Dimitri says: shame, shame, and
increases Sinn Fein campaign contributions in the hope they are better
funded next time.)

(I forget name, but there is a non-governmental paramilitary group on
other side to IRA in NI, occasionally there is rumor that British Army
is feeding this paramilitary organisation names of IRA suspects to
hit, to save them the trouble).


You guys remember the Faulkland Islands thing under Thatcher?  Some
miniscule lump of rock with a few hundred sheep farmers on it?  UK
government sent warships etc at multiple billion cost.  Would've been
cheaper to desert rock, and give each and every inhabitant a cool $1
million relocation expenses.  But no, had to waste money because some
alterior motive, suitable missile outpost or something.

Wonder what the interest is in Northern Ireland?

Should give the Irish (go Paddy) back Northern Ireland, Scottish
autonomy also (haggis home rule:-).  Wales (leeks) too, yeah.
Fragmented government is a good thing, divide and conquer.  I
understand the Muslims want their own government over here also!

Some Scottish people want home rule (Scottish Independence Party?),
they had a vote on it and lost a while back.  Wales is a poor part of
the country, some richer people have bought second home holiday
cottages in picturesque welsh country side.  Result: drives up prices
for poorer locals.  A few welsh started burning down such cottages.
Some Welsh also want independence.  They have road signs in English
and in a language which most of the locals can't even read.  Similar
thing in Southern Ireland.  (Desparately hanging on to heritage).

Adam

ps Paddy is generic name for an Irishman, a haggis is a stuffed part
of sheeps anatomy, a peculiar highland delicacy, nick name for
Scotsman, leek is a vegetable, some kind of Welsh emblem, and used as
name for Welshman.  Scots call English Sasenachs (I lived in Scotland
for a couple of years, you get so you can understand what it is
they're saying after a while :-).  Not sure of Welsh and Irish names
for English.  US name is `Limey'.  OK `Yankees' :-) Vote Indian home
rule: Running Deer for president.





