From: Electronic Privacy Info Center <info@epic.org>
Date: Thu, 9 Oct 1997 15:30:45 -0700 (PDT)
To: Misc <info@epic.org>
Subject: Privacy Forum - Oct 20 - Washington DC
Message-ID: <v03110708b0630ae1f6b1@[204.91.138.218]>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


 - Open to the public -


                         PRIVACY SYMPOSIUM
                 Georgetown University Law Center
                          Washington, DC
                         October 20, 1997

A public symposium entitled "Privacy at the Crossroads: Law, Technology,
and Public Policy", will be held on October 20, 1997, at Georgetown
University Law Center in Washington, DC.

This symposium will look at emerging privacy issues in the legal and
technological world, with a particular focus on the European Union
Data Directive, privacy enhancing technologies, and the shape of
privacy protection in the next century.

These issues are rapidly coming to the fore with the adoption of the
European Union Directive and the increasing interest in techniques to
promote privacy protection, especially with the rapid flow and exchange of
information that is possible with electronic data.  Privacy has recently
been the subject of hearings before the Federal Trade Commission and it
is a central component of the new White House policy on Electronic
Commerce.

The symposium will take place on Monday, October 20, 1997, at the Gerwirz
Center of the Georgetown University Law Center, 600 New Jersey Avenue, NW,
Washington, DC.  The program will begin at 9 a.m. and conclude at 4 p.m.
Speakers will include many North American experts on privacy and technology
issues, including law professors, technologists, and commentators.

The symposium is sponsored by the Georgetown University Law Center, the
John F. Connelly Program in Business Ethics, Georgetown University School
of Business, the Communication, Culture, and Technology Program of
Georgetown University, and the Electronic Privacy Information Center.  This
is a free event open to the public.  No registration is required.

If you have any further questions, please contact Shauna Van Dongen at
<shauna@epic.org>.

Program

"PRIVACY AT THE CROSSROADS: LAW, TECHNOLOGY AND PUBLIC POLICY"

Georgetown University Law Center
Gewirz Student Center, 12th Floor
600 New Jersey Avenue, NW
Washington, DC
Monday, October 20, 9 a.m. - 4 p.m.


9:00 Welcome - Dean Allen, Prof. Levy, Prof. Drake, Prof. Rotenberg

9:15  The European Union Data Directive

Moderator: Deborah Hurley, Kennedy School of Government

Prof. David Flaherty, British Columbia Information and Privacy Commissioner
Robert Gellman, Information and Privacy Consultant
Prof. Priscilla Regan, George Mason University
Prof. Paul Schwartz, Brooklyn Law School
Prof. Peter Swire, Ohio State University College of Law

10:45  Privacy and Technology

Moderator: Prof. Michael Froomkin, Univ. of Miami Law School

Dr. Ann Cavoukian, Ontario Information and Privacy Commissioner
Prof. Gary Marx, Woodrow Wilson Center
Prof. Joel Reidenberg, Fordham Law School
Prof. Paul Resnick, University of Michigan
Peter Wayner, Cybertimes

12:15 Lunch

1:30  The Future of Privacy

Moderator: Dean Anita Allen, Georgetown University Law Center

Prof. Phil Agre, Univ. of California at San Diego
Prof. Mary Culnan, Georgetown Graduate School of Business
Prof. Helen Nissenbaum, Princeton University
Prof. Alan Westin, Columbia University

3:00-4:00 Reception

Sponsored by -
Georgetown University Law Center,
John F. Connelly Program in Business Ethics of the
Georgetown University School of Business,
Georgetown University Communication, Culture, and Technology Program
[http://www.georgetown.edu/grad/CCT/],
Electronic Privacy Information Center
[http://www.epic.org/]






