From: secret@nsa.fbi.cia.org
Date: Mon, 27 Oct 1997 04:16:38 +0800
To: cypherpunks@cyberpass.net
Subject: Click HERE for Boy Sex
Message-ID: <199710262011.MAA29005@uwin2.u.washington.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



An interesting anti-censorship experiment is currently taking
place on Usenet.
 
It's ingredients: One Libertarian-minded California ISP named
InterBBS which provides a variety of services to various pay XXX
Web sites, for resale to their customers, including an
uncensored, unfiltered, and unexpurgated newsfeed, which InterBBS
is protected by Common Carrier status from liability for the
contents of.
 
A nifty piece of software, recently added to InterBBS, which runs
something called "newspix", a web-based interface to Usenet
binaries pictures groups, pre-decoded and cross-referenced for
your instant point-and-clicking pleasure.
 
A guy named "Dave", a customer of InterBBS, who is reselling the
services of InterBBS through a pay boy pictures site, including
web access to a number of boy-related erotica newsgroups, whose
content neither Dave nor InterBBS controls.  Dave is very careful
to tell us that it is imperative that we not download anything
which would be illegal according to our community standards, and
that if we "unknowingly" do so, we should delete it immediately.
InterBBS, and its lawyers, maintain that their decoded neatly
indexed web-accessible Usenet pictures service enjoys the same
immunity for its content due to their Common Carrier status as
the raw newsfeed does, and of course, they wouldn't think of
keeping records on which customers read which Usenet articles.
 
The owner of InterBBS is Marlin Schwanke, who also runs
*CENSORED*.com, and is well known for giving bandwidth to
persecuted causes.
 
The net effect of all of these things coming together is that
there now exists convenient pseudoanonymous web access to all
boy-related child porn pictures posted to Usenet, for a small fee
you may bill monthly to the credit card of your choice.
 
This new service has caused a huge rift amongst Net Boylovers,
who believe that even if this operation is technically legal, and
protects the confidentiality of its customers, that such
conspicuous promotion of locations on Usenet where illegal
material is very likely to be found, and facilitating its easy
access to the non-technically minded for profit, is not in
anyones best interests.
 
For Further Reading:
 
   http://boypics.com/newspix.html            (Dave's Naughty Pix)
   http://www.ivan.net/bc/messages/38850.htm  (Marlin Answers His Critics)
   http://www.interbbs.com/                   (InterBBS home page)
 
Surely the Feds are not going to take this lying down. :)
 
Will Marlin and Dave be dragged to Tennessee or Utah to face
trial in front of a bunch of inbred jurors?  Will yokels from the
cast of "Deliverance" in the courtroom audience squeal like pigs
when the words "10 year old erect penis" are mentioned?
 
Will Dave get a cell next to Robert Thomas of AA BBS fame?
 
Will Reno and Freeh engage in unnatural sex and have a deformed
cow?
 
Is this the technology that will finally drive Officer Mike
"Sewer Site" Paladino to take his own life?
 
Stay tuned for the next episode of "Boy Pics from Dave."
 
--BoySexMonger
 





