From: Anonymous <anon@anon.efga.org>
Date: Fri, 31 Oct 1997 05:47:26 +0800
To: remailer-operators@anon.lcs.mit.edu
Subject: [FWD] Re: Burnore preworthily larine circumgyrate (Who Care?)
Message-ID: <571650ea59cbc51a6eafda200ef0e938@anon.efga.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Gary L. Burnore <gburnore@netcom.com> whined:

> Funny. Of course, databasix.com has been DOWN SINCE AUGUST BECAUSE OF A
> MOVE.  The shit you see abouve comes from the anon asshole trying to see
> if Burnore and DataBasix and other keywords are being blocked by anon
> remailers.  I've seen it before.

I'm sure Ron Guilmette (who you've accused elsewhere of doing this) would be smart enough to know that it doesn't take dozens of posts every day containing those keywords to detect blocking, if any.  OTOH, the fact that the "abuse" 
does seem to fit such a nice, tidy pattern does imply that an easy way to 
stop it would be to block any anonymous posts that mention Gary Burnore, 
DataBasix, etc.  Could that be the real purpose of this nonsense?  Do you know 
anyone who'd like to see all anonymous posts that mention Gary Burnore and/or
DataBasix blocked?  Perhaps someone who chronically refers to remailer users
as "anon assholes"?

Of course, the databasix.com domain being down is irrelevant.  You still 
have sufficient Internet access through Netcom to do what's being done, so
your alibi is meaningless.
 
> Such an amazing coincidence that the software given freely by
> mai1to:rfg@monkeys.com (aka mai1to:support@e-scrub.com and
> mai1to:sales@escrub.com) makes the above output possible.

It's even more amazing that you'd just happen to know what sort of software
was being used to generate the messages, isn't it?  And if it's "freely
available", as you say, then even you could have obtained a copy.  You
certainly seem to be familiar with its capabilities.

Why would Ron allegedly have to use this special software just to test a few
keywords (especially if using his own software would implicate himself)?  And 
if he is supposedly using the remailers for "harassment", why would he do 
something designed to get them shut down?  I don't recall him posting 
anti-remailer tirades and harassing remailer operators (such as Jeff 
Burchell) as you've done.

Or could it be that you're trying to flood the search engines with references
to certain keywords so that it's difficult to search for posts related to
you, DataBasix, and your tactics?

And did you insert all of those "mail to:" URLs into your post to get Ron
Guilmette spam-baited, or did you hope I'd quote them verbatim and thus get
my post blocked by some automated filter mechanism?

--
Without censorship, things can get terribly confused in the public mind.

 -- General William Westmoreland   





