From: Web FormPAL<sales@munica.com>
Date: Fri, 18 Apr 1997 14:20:10 -0700 (PDT)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Web Tools and Resource Download
Message-ID: <199704182120.RAA20585@genco.webdevelop.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Greetings From Munica!(http://www.munica.com)

If this message is unwanted, we appologize for sending it.
Please reply the message with the word "REMOVE" and
we will no longer send you further information.

Munica Corporation is offering web related tools and
resources for your business. With dozens of pre-built
web utilities and an innovative CGI script generator(FormPAL),
you can easily create powerful web solutions without
programming.

All our software products come with 30-day money back
guarantee. If any of our software does not satisfy you within
30-day period, simply destroy all the copies of the product
to get full refund.

Among several of our products, FormPAL is the most popular one.
Over 20,000 copies are currently being used by webmasters
world wide.

FormPAL 2.5 is a versatile tool for producing and publishing
forms for corporate or personal web sites.

This product generates CGI scripts for creating and handling
virtually any type of form, and makes it possible to satisfy
one of the important prerequisites of a good web site: obtaining
customer input or feedback.

FormPAL 2.5 is compatible with any Web Authoring product.
Users with no programming experience can design and program
professional web forms and create the controlling CGI scripts.

FormPAL 2.5 is compatible with any web server running any
operating system that supports PERL scripts.

Currently available in two editions, i.e., standard and
professional Edition, FormPAL 2.5 can both satisfy the need
of web designers of all levels.

FormPAL standard is targeted at designers whose primary need
is email forms and data log forms.

FormPAL professional edition offers powerful cross platform
database access capabilities for developing data-driven
web sites.

FormPAL standard edition costs US$99. FormPAL professional
costs US$286 . Secure on-line order is available. We accept
VISA, MASTER CARD or Money Order. To order please click
http://www.munica.com/products.htm

Thanks for reading,

Daini Xie

Marketing Dept.
Munica Corporation
Web: http://www.munica.com
EMAIL: sale@munica.com
Tel: 1-514-3621032
Fax: 1-514-7620778










