From: nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)
Date: Thu, 25 Dec 1997 04:57:32 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Server Registration
Message-ID: <199712242051.VAA18158@basement.replay.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Server Registration

Excerpts From:
None of Your Business: 
World Data Flows, Electronic Commerce, and the European Privacy Directive
Peter P. Swire & Robert E. Litan

>Consent and jurisdiction, however, may be much bigger problems on the Web.  
>As for consent, an ordinary user often will not know the identity of the 
>person or organization that is hosting a web site.  The user often will 
>not know about the site's privacy practices.  Does the site keep track 
>of personal information, and perhaps sell that information to third 
>parties?  
>Is a "cookie" being placed on the user's hard drive to track his or her 
>movements in cyberspace?  Even if a site claims to have privacy protections 
>in place, how can the user verify that the polices are followed?  
>In addition, the user also has no ready way to determine whether the site 
>is within Europe, and thus clearly subject to the Directive, or else in 
>a third country that may lack privacy standards.  
>In light of all of these uncertainties, there may be little basis for 
>assuming that an individual has consented to a site's uses of personal 
>information.

  In the coming InfoWar, servers will be classified as "munitions" and
will be subject to registration, regulation and control.
  This will, of course, be for the 'Data Protection' of the citizens,
corporations and the government.
  "In the interests of National Security." will become, "In the interests
of Data Protection." or somesuch new catchphrase of oppression.

>Outside of Europe, U.S. and other web site operators are even less 
>likely to comply with the Directive, and many of these operators may 
>remain beyond the jurisdiction of European law.  
>Web sites will also likely be established outside of Europe precisely 
>in order to process data in ways that are forbidden by the Directive, 
>and it is far from clear that technical methods exist to prevent data 
>from flowing to such sites.

  Naturally, the InfoWar waged against Data Criminals will have to be a
global effort, with the increasing merging of worldwide LEA's described
by Reno and Freeh.
  God help the American who is an international coconspirator of Jaime
Belle. God help the American who exports strong encryption developed by
RSA in Communist China, and subject to their laws.

  Face it...any government or corporation that could be guaranteed 
exclusive access to the Chinese market would send a Strike Force back
in time to murder baby Jesus in Bethlehem, if that was what it took.
  The citizen's ass will soon be global grass...

>This legal enforceability will only provide effective protection of data,
>though, if there is actual compliance by the many controllers within 
>Europe, and some legal and practical way to gain compliance from web 
>site operators elsewhere in the world.

  "In order to Data-Save the Global Village, we had to burn it."

>It is indeed possible that data protection rules will increase consumer 
>confidence and thus the level of electronic commerce -- if the public 
>knows about and trusts the data protection rules, and if those rules 
>inspire more confidence than other approaches to protecting privacy.

  Bullshit!
  The sheeple will sell out their human rights birthright for a bowl of
instant gratification pottage, and, in the twisted reality of present
day 'democracy', will sell out the rights of the rest of us, as well.

  "If you don't click on the button that states you agree with the loss
of all your human rights, you cannot access the "Naked Teenagers Sucking
Donkey Dicks" streaming videos."

NEWS FLASH!!!
The news stories describing how reluctant consumers are to give out their
credit card information out over the InterNet never seem to mention that
the largest financial transaction base on the InterNet is not fueled by
customers who wait a week or so for 'snail mail' payments to "Adult Check"
to give them access to hard-core pornography.

  The sheeple will "trust the data protection rules" when they are 'told'
to do so (by the same government officials who told them that there would
indeed be jacuzzi's at Aushwitz -- "Now climb aboard, please.")

  "They came for the encryption, and I had no encryption, so I didn't
speak up. They came for the server registration, and I had no server,
so I didn't speak up.
  "Then they came for access to the hard drives, and I had a hard drive,
but nobody spoke up."

  Saving the life of that "single child" is going to be the death
of us all.

ServerRegistrationMonger #326-A57-IE54876-29





