From: nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)
Date: Tue, 9 Dec 1997 04:17:32 +0800
To: cypherpunks@Algebra.COM
Subject: Re: It's Sunday...
Message-ID: <199712082004.VAA16310@basement.replay.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



-----Begin Forward Message-----
From: Linda Reed <lreed@igate.iscg.pima.gov>
Organization: pima county

Hi, CJ   
                      -- Thanx for cheering me up on a MONday mornin' -- 
and for your bits of worldly wisdom.

        Every once in a while, in between the gross sexual/political
bashings 
and overstatement of the not-so-obvious, I can glean some truthful 
observation on the world at large--something to at least spark my brain 
(which it badly needs today).

        Thanx for the warning.  People DO ask about you from
time-to-time, 
especially Bob & Kid Squidd--who both seem to be doing OK--and others, 
who breathe a sigh of relief when I tell them you're still out of the 
country ;)

        I have one more month of probation at my new job with the
county--the 
thing is they want me to come in every day--and at the right time! 
Still 
struggling with that part--in the mean time getting all their programs 
and screens to hold onto a 4-digit year in preparation for the
Year-2000. 
 I've talked to several people who are making lots of money convincing 
everyone to pay them to revamp for the inevitability of the century 
change--who also plan to retire some time before it hits (and remain 
out-of-touch in case the revamping fails for any reason).

I'm having T-shirts made for LL & the Driffters for Xmas--special green
& 
red colors--shall I mail you one?
to what address?  We're still driffting around--looks like I'll have to 
actually pay for studio time and an engineer early in the year to get a 
recording done--want to come sing in background on "It's A Long Way to
My 
Heart"?

Here's wishing you a Merry one from a girl who's been both naughty and 
nice  -- Linda Lou ;) 

-----End Forward Message-----





