From: Bubba Rom Dos <bubba@dev.null>
Date: Thu, 27 Mar 1997 10:34:13 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Heaven's Gate / Main
Message-ID: <333ABD6C.68D4@dev.null>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/html

Title: Services: Website Design Graphic Design Audio/Video









	 
	



	Now that the public is rapidly adopting the Internet as the primary
source for their informational needs, we at Higher Source not only cater to
customizing websites that will enhance your company image, but strive to make
your transition into the "world of cyberspace" a very easy and fascinating
experience.  Higher Source's Internet World Wide Web services include:



	Higher Source's Internet World Wide Web services include:
 

	Advanced Website Design
	Graphic Design and Layout
	Digital Audio and Video Integration


	Java, ShockWave, VRML Programming
	Domain Name Search and Registration
	Strategies to Increase Web Traffic


	PGP, Privacy and Security Training
	Multimedia Application Development
	Custom Programming in Many Languages


	Intranet Design and Implementation
	Search Engine Placement
	Systems Analysis and Consulting


	Systems Setup and Training

 







	 
	


	

	We understand the many variations and limitations of the Internet and
of Web browser applications.  Designing a Web page that looks great on a PC or
a Mac and with different browser technologies takes time-tested experience.
Our highly skilled designers are aware of the latest tricks of the trade,
including the latest Internet multimedia presentation technology.


 












	 
	


	

	Graphics can add the punch needed to attract the attention of even the
most elusive Web surfer.  Graphics can also slow website loading time to a
boring crawl and cause potential customers to look elsewhere.  Our Website
designers know what it takes to work within these parameters and any
budget to give your website the desired impact.  Whether using stock or custom
photography, cutting-edge computer graphics, or plain HTML text, Higher Source
can go from "cool" to "corporate" like a chameleon.


 










	 
	



	With the increasing presence of advertising on the Internet comes the
need to offer advanced products and services.  The Web is a perfect match for
Multimedia presentation, from 3D animation to full-motion video and audio.  We
stay current with multimedia technologies from AVI and Quicktime to ShockWave
and Java.

The Film and Music industries have welcomed the Internet with open arms as an
inexpensive and innovative new medium for exposure.  With better technology
being introduced almost monthly, TV and Internet will soon be all inclusive.


 










	 
	


	

	Along with the ease of Internet connectivity comes increased concern
over personal and corporate security.  Many users are unaware of how vulnerable
they are to others with questionable ethics.  Higher Source offers consultation
and training on systems using secure transactions and electronic
communications.  This knowledge will help de-mystify the inner workings of the
Net, increase your confidence, and ensure safety in all of your Internet
endeavors.

 












	 
	

	

	The Higher Source programming crew has successfully completed many
development projects in both large and small systems environments and in a
variety of languages.  Chances are your cellular phone or pager company uses
programs designed by our team of professionals.  So do many banks and other
major corporations.


	

	Java is fast becoming the platform of choice with its multiple variations,
inherent speed, security, and application potential.



	Java
	 C and C++
	COBOL (MFC and Mainframe)


	Visual Basic 
	Assembler
	Visual FoxPro


	FoxPro
	Informix
	QBX


	SQL 
	Pascal 
	Fortran


         Databus
	ZAPD
	Shell Script


	4th-Generation Languages

 















	 
	

	

	With topnotch accuracy, our CNE's, MCP's, and technicians can help you
with local and wide area networks, intranet setup, helpdesk design and
other state-of-the-art technologies.  We're proficient with Windows 95/NT,
Novell Netware, and Unix, to name a few.  Our "hands-on" consultants and
engineers can also help you with digital phone systems, computer telephony,
hardware/software installation, cabling, troubleshooting, and training.  Higher
Source is very much "in tune" with the current pulse and future direction of
technology.


 





	 
	



	The individuals at the core of our group have worked closely together
for over 20 years.  During those years, each of us has developed a high degree
of skill and know-how through personal discipline and concerted effort.  We try
to stay positive in every circumstance and put the good of a project above any
personal concerns or artistic egos.  By sustaining this attitude and conduct,
we have achieved a high level of efficiency and quality in our work.  This
crew-minded effort, combined with ingenuity and creativity, have helped us
provide advanced solutions at highly competitive rates.


 













A Few Sample Websites!
"Pre-Madonna"   Live CD samples, CD sales http://www.pre-madonna.com
"Keep The Faith"  Online CD sales catalog, audio samples, shopping cart, Discussion Forums, Live 3D Avatar Chat Rooms http://www.keepthefaith.com
"Kushner-Locke"   Film production industry, corporate portfolio http://www.kushner-locke.com
"San Diego  Polo Club" Polo Club online http://www.sandiegopolo.com
"1800 Harmony"  Audio, Online Ordering, Animation http://www.1800harmony.com
"British Masters" Online sales of British Cars and accessories http://www2.4dcomm.com/bmr
"Samia Rose Topiary" Custom and tabletop topiaries available http://www.srtopiary.com













JAVA / VRML / GRAPHICS
Email US hsce@highersource.com
Or           font@cris.com



<!-- Concentric Network Corporation provides this web directory as
a service to its customers and is not responsible for its content. -->




