From: "Attila T. Hun" <attila@hun.org>
Date: Fri, 7 Nov 1997 11:08:54 +0800
To: cypherpunks <jya@pipeline.com>
Subject: FEMA site using cookies
Message-ID: <19971107.025151.attila@hun.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/html

Title:  FEMA Cookies 

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//IETF//DTD HTML 3.0//EN">



     
   

    Cookies used on federal sites 
    By Stephanie Miles 
    CNET:  November 6, 1997, 5:10 p.m.  PT 
    http://www.news.com/News/Item/0,4,16137,00.html?owv 

    According to ...  an OMB Watch...  report "A Delicate 
    Balance: The Privacy and Access Practices of Federal 
    Government World Wide Web Sites," web sites for the Federal
    Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), National Science
    Foundation (NSF), and Department of Veterans Affairs were
    using [cookies]... 

    No one from FEMA was available for comment.
                                                
yes, FEMA. 

I'm sure FEMA wants to know where anybody who visits them also 
visits so they can pass the list off to the DEA, BATF, FBI, CIA,
whatever.

don't leave home without it! American Express? no --Lucent's
lpwa.com which is a nym style web server which handles the 
interface so you can receive mail to their machine generated 
nym. fast, too.
 
there is more reason to fear FEMA than even F{reeh,uck}.  one
stroke of the pen on an executive order and FEMA has total
control under martial law, including the suspension of civil
liberties, trials, etc.  FEMA has approximately 2,500 full time
employees who are subject to no-one except the President of the
United States -until he signs the order, then FEMA's resources
are unlimited.  

do you think FEMA would surrender their power once the 
emergency was over?  anymore than Roosevelt or any of
succeeding Presidents have surrendered their powers under 
the "Trading with the Enemy" Act of 1917 as amended 09 Mar
1933 by an unsuspecting special session of Congress?  

remember, in an emergency, FEMA has the armed forces at 
its disposal and can use same to go door to door with dogs to
confiscate firearms, etc. why do you think this question was 
posed to all special operations units [recon and specop] of the 
Marines plus Navy Seals, etc.?
                                                
        The USMC 29 Palms Combat Arms Survey:  

        #46. "The U.S. government declares a ban on the
             possession, sale, transportation, and transfer 
             of all non-sporting firearms ...consider the
             following statement: 
                                                

                I would fire upon U.S. citizens who refuse or 
                resist confiscation of firearms banned by the
                U.S. government..." 
                                    

they were looking for a yes/no answer --no maybes.  if anybody
thinks this is a joke --it was not; it was given to most units 
at 29 Palms, Pendleton, LeJuene, and Paris Island. the
percentage responses were interesting:  men with less than 5
years service were 90% "yes" --grizzled old NCOMs with 15 or 
more years were less than 15% "yes." 

shows what the federal government educational system is capable
of conditioning with a little help from movies and television.
subliminally, was has been glorified by the merchants of death: 
arms manufacturers and power hungry politicians. 

Well, staring down the beast and living to tell about it (20 
years later when he heat cools down) may be the greatest thrill
you'll ever have in life; and sport hunting is a non-event after
you have hunted man...  ask jya what the beast looks like...
jya, like I, will probably answer:  "which one?"  

that question was one of 50 --others included the willingness to
suppress Americans on American soil while in the command of UN 
officers. 

testing the waters?  
maybe so, but when do we hear this statement again:


   "1935 will go down in history!  For the first time a 
    civilized nation has full gun registration! Our 
    streets will be safer, our police more efficient, 
    and the world will follow our lead in the future!"  
        --Adolf Hitler 



rather chillingly "true" statement today, is it not? 



    attila out loudly!





-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.6.3i
Charset: latin1
Comment: No safety this side of the grave. Never was; never will be

iQBVAwUBNGKC67R8UA6T6u61AQGmTAH8CJABNpUd8uSGpwd7oCq9ufw1JXC1viar
jZYbTudnnOrXkPd59nhJNwhnmEBc6dGd1ycAmZ+V21lN/6tYjzMPAg==
=Chvy
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----




