From: nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)
Date: Mon, 3 Nov 1997 06:29:33 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Vote CypherPunk!
Message-ID: <199711022212.XAA19710@basement.replay.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



At 20:24 -0500 10/31/97, TruthMonger wrote:
>* In August, the Boston Globe profiled the Taiwan National
>Assembly (which specializes in constitutional issues), where it is
>fairly common for the minority New Party to filibuster by merely
>grabbing the microphone and physically restraining majority-party
>members so that they cannot call for votes.  Fights break out,
>sometimes bloody ones.  Said a local political science professor, "It
>may not be civilized, but it's efficient" because citizens respond by
>re-electing the aggressive legislators.  

I'd probably have a lot more respect for Congresscritters if they cared
enough about any issue to physically fight about it. Maybe we could issue
them weapons, too; then term limits would become a moot point. (Who would
win if Jesse Helms and Diane Feinstein had a fight to the death? The 
American citizens.)

A suitable quote from Monty Python:

    We would like to apologize for the way politicians are
    represented in this programme. It was never our intention  to
    imply that politicians are weak-kneed, political time-servers
    who are concerned more with their personal vendettas and
    private power struggles than the problems of government, nor
    to suggest at any point that they sacrifice their credibility
    by denying free debate on vital matters in the mistaken
    impression that party unity comes before the well-being of
    the people they supposedly represent, nor to imply at any
    stage that they are squabbling little toadies without an
    ounce of concern for the vital social problems of today. Nor
    indeed do we intend that viewers should consider them as
    crabby ulcerous self-seeking vermin with furry legs and an
    addiction to alcohol and certain explicit sexual practices
    which some people might find offensive. We are sorry if this
    impression has come across.

In fact, they could run this at the top of every hour on C-SPAN. I'll call
my cable company.








