From: Six <ualdv8@sk.sympatico.ca>
Date: Fri, 19 Dec 1997 05:47:45 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Warez Transfer
Message-ID: <34997C25.39EE@sk.sympatico.ca>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Warez Transfer
--------------
To decrypt the 'wrzs9514.xxx.asc' files with PGP, use
the password 'warez'.
run 'wrzs9514.bat' to get 'wrzs9514.zip'
unzip
--------------

Tojohoto,
You were right...you *can* tell who they are by the way they knock.
They took your computer. (They just want to ask it a few questions.) :>

Norton Wipeinfo doesn't run in multitasking so I didn't take time to
reboot it. I ran 'delete *.*' in one MS-DOS window and ran a 'copy *.*'
command on a large directory in another MS-DOS window. By the time they
pulled the plug it had already ripped its own head off and shit down its
own neck.

I had already made sure your harddrive was badly defragmented so the
two commands should have made a good mess. I put a boot&fat sector virus
on your hard drive and gave them a bootable floppy disk that has another
virus on it.
(I told them that the floppy disk in your computer was mine so they gave
 it to me. Then the guy who gave it to me came back and said he needed
 to have it back. I gave him a disk and the lamer asked me if it was
 the same one. Duuhhh...) ;?

If anyone on the cypherpunks list liked you, they don't now...sorry.
I stayed up all night and sent you the file splitting program that
Bianca sent. I know she plays with stuff so I guessed it is probably
different than what you could get on the Net so I sent it to the
cypherpunks list because I don't know if they are going to come get
my computers, too.

Berzerkeley said you can get in touch if you need to. You must owe him
money, eh? Lost Taos said they don't know you and never have and to
come before you call.

There is something else but I forgot.
Have to go and do weird stuff to my computers and disks.

Bye
<---->
  8"

pp - "Don't get any on'ya!"

ppp - I messed up the .asc file order because 95 --> 3.1 multiple
disk transfer duplicates filenames. The decrypted files should
come out right though. I will check after I juryrig my computers.





