From: Declan McCullagh <declan@well.com>
Date: Thu, 11 Sep 1997 07:49:03 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Crypto-czar nominated for Commerce Dept undersecretary (fwd)
Message-ID: <Pine.GSO.3.95.970910162613.17580X-100000@well.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain





---------- Forwarded message ----------
Date: Wed, 10 Sep 1997 16:26:04 -0700 (PDT)
From: Declan McCullagh <declan@well.com>
To: fight-censorship@vorlon.mit.edu
Subject: Crypto-czar nominated for Commerce Dept undersecretary


	Clinton Nominates Aaron to Commerce Department Post

	WASHINGTON, Sept. 8 /U.S. Newswire/ -- President Clinton today
announced his intent to nominate Ambassador David L. Aaron for the
position of Under Secretary for International Trade at the Department
of Commerce.
	Aaron, of Sag Harbor, N.Y., has extensive experience in both
national and international issues. Since 1993, he has served as U.S.
Ambassador to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development (OECD). In 1996, the White House announced his
appointment as Special Envoy for Cryptography, giving him the
responsibility of promoting the growth of international electronic
commerce and robust, secure global communications in a manner that
protects the public safety and national security.
	In 1962, Aaron entered the Foreign Service where he served in a
variety of posts including NATO, the United Nations, and the
Strategic Arms talks. After leaving the Foreign Service, he continued
in government at the National Security Council, on the staff of Sen.
Walter Mondale, the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and as
Deputy National Security Advisor to President Carter.
	Upon leaving government, Aaron became vice president for mergers
and acquisitions at Oppenheimer and Co. Prior to becoming
ambassador, he was a senior fellow at the Twentieth Century Fund,
served on the board of the National Democratic Institute and the
International League for Human Rights, and was a member of the
Overseas Development Council and the Council on Foreign Relations.
He is a recipient of the National Defense Medal, the Pentagon's
highest civilian award, and the author of three novels. Aaron is a
graduate of Occidental College and Princeton University.
	As head of the Commerce Department's International Trade
Administration, Aaron will be responsible for policies and programs
that promote world trade and strengthen the international trade and
investment position of the United States.







