From: nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)Amad3us <cypherpunks@cyberpass.net>
Date: Mon, 17 Nov 1997 04:05:48 +0800
To: cypherpunks@cyberpass.net
Subject: the art of fighting without fighting
Message-ID: <199711161959.UAA14136@basement.replay.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

Bruce Lee film.

Scene on a sailing ship headed for island where tournament
is to be held.

Thug karate type hassles Mr Lee, picking a fight.  Thug
asks: "so what kind of karate do you fight."  Mr Lee: "the
art of fighting without fighting."  Thug asks for fight.  Mr
Lee: "not here, on that island over there," points.  OK says
thug eagerly and climbs down into rowing boat.  Mr Lee
unties end of rope and hands to children playing, leaning
over edge of ship.  Thug screams obscenities from row boat,
trys to pull himself in but children threaten to let go of
rope.

Mr Lee walks off camera unperturbed with smug look.

Moral of story: fight smart.  That's what cypherpunks tactic
is.  Multiplies your efficacy.

Anonymous decries talk of violence on list.  Understand
anonymous, we are not the aggressors, we are the aggressed.
It is annoying being on the receiving end of aggression
especially where the aggressor is the local force monopoly
and you have no recourse.  Hence talk of nuking DC, and of
capital punishment for criminal government officials.  There
is certain poetic karmic value to these expressions of
annoyance.  Helps spread the dissatisfaction with
government.

However, the fact that criminal officials deserve punishment
does not mean that any of us are interested to actually
deliver that punishment.  There are more efficient methods
of utilising our available resources: write crypto code,
hasten crypto-anarchy.  Have the government collapse through
lack of funding, have it's power eroded.

Let's get to it.

Amad3us

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 6.6.6

iQCVAwUBNG9DLvKMuKFNFivhAQEwQgP9E/gJyEqdczO9epkmXJ35swOcDId2W+N4
lpLX8fsE3g7PTxMGb4CMCOftqRPbYZ5F5ZLeFKjQGQG5/7D99n8dWiNFERRM5/Go
s6CSIYzM3jKXVYrW7NxbjCvw/IfDv9QGLZphU7ZK41efU/4Y0OXydQJAO+AHsFFk
1end8q1QRPM=
=hc+j
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----





