From: Mike Duvos <enoch@zipcon.net>
Date: Thu, 31 Jul 1997 06:17:21 +0800
To: declan@well.com
Subject: Netly News Fan Mail
Message-ID: <19970730220815.5319.qmail@zipcon.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



It appears that the CPAC/Sewer folks have read the recent Netly News
article on their activities and were not pleased.  This little blurb
healines the "Sewer List" this morning.

-----Begin Officer Paladino Rant-----

July 29, 1997, I was told of an article that appeared on the Net.
It appeared on a Netly News site. Of course, its good reading if
you are a Boylover. Apparently the writer, like many reporters I
have known, likes to keep the pot stirring with coin phrases like
war, net.vigilantes and so on.

To give the article credibility he interviewed CPAC, NAMBLA,
ACLU. He also mention this writer but forgot to get a statement
from me and 100's of other groups that feel that child porn,
molesters and such have no place on the web.

In the article he links to a few sites showing young boys but he
forgot to link to the 1000's of sites showing young boys in the
nude. Why is that I ask. Well to keep the pot stirring. He claims
their is gay bashing going on, look on this site and others that
link here and you'll find no gay bashing.

You will see sites exposing young boys, as young as 4 years old,
nude. I, for one, can't not justify nude pictures of 4yr old boys
and girls. But the Boylovers insist this is their way of showing
love. AND, of course, we always get back to the Freedom of Speech
arguement.

You know that gigantic excuse for expression. We still have
Freedom of Speech in this counrty, while every other liberty is
falling by the wayside. As I read the article, I could see the
bias and I wonder why???? Maybe the reporter also has an agenda.
If he writes another article on this subject, it would be
interesting to see which Boylovers will be interviewed.
Apparently he has never been to the Sewer or maybe he has?

Freedom is a great thing and this is the greatest country in the
world. I wonder how many soldiers that gave their lifes fighting
for that freedom, had pictures of nude boys in their wallets,
instead of their families. Think about
that.......................

-----End Officer Paladino Rant-----

Will someone please buy this poor man a spell-checker? :)

--
     Mike Duvos         $    PGP 2.6 Public Key available     $
     enoch@zipcon.com   $    via Finger                       $
         {Free Cypherpunk Political Prisoner Jim Bell}






