From: Super-User <root@nwdtc.com>
Date: Fri, 2 May 1997 04:50:36 +0800
To: cypherpunks@algebra.com
Subject: Layoffs at PGP
Message-ID: <3368FF82.4EDB@teleport.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain

http://www.wired.com/news/business/story/3543.html

I what part of the employee base was purged?  Anyone we know?

Sounds like PGP sold their soul to the company store... (or the
corporate binge and purge mentality.)


  [arrow] PGP Pretty Good on Privacy of Layoff Details
          by Kristi Coale

          6:09pm  30.Apr.97.PDT In keeping with its core technology -
          information security - Pretty Good Privacy was tight-lipped about
          the details of the layoffs it announced to employees Tuesday
          morning.

          "We prefer not to mention the number as we are a privacy company,
          but it was small in number and limited in scope," spokesman Mike
          Nelson told Wired News on Wednesday.

          The layoffs are part of what Nelson described as a shift in the
          company's strategy from developing products for protecting
          individual privacy to being a security specialist for the Fortune
          500. Analysts say this rejiggering of priorities is not a drastic
          one, pointing to the 24 March purchase of ZoomIt, a company that
          specialized in corporate, enterprise-wide security systems.

          The shift represents a maturation of a company that built its
          reputation through a type of grass-roots organizing: distributing
          its products through freeware, said Ezra Gottheil, director of
          Internet business strategies in Newton, Massachusetts.

          "They're a real Internet company. They're also an ambitious
          company that sees it's time to move into corporate IS
          departments," Gottheil said.

          Part of that shift may mean that Internet Fast-Forward, an
          ad-filtering technology developed by PrivNet, which PGP acquired
          last November, will take a back seat - perhaps permanently.
          Although PGP wouldn't say that it is pulling the plug on the
          product, Fast-Forward is considered a "lower priority" than other
          developments, Nelson said.

          "Internet Fast-Forward is not as closely related to the tools we
          develop for individuals for privacy," he said. And the fact that
          Fast-Forward filters ads which are an "inimical part of some of
          the emerging Web commerce models ... we don't want to hinder this
          development."

          Nelson wouldn't say whether the layoffs affected anyone in
          PrivNet but noted that the acquisition generated engineering
          talent PGP wanted. That technical know-how along with other
          resources are being focused on centralized corporate security
          systems. In fact, the company has put out a casting call for more
          engineers to satisfy its resource dearth in research and
          development in this area.

          Ultimately, all of these adjustments could simply be PGP's
          preparation to woo the investors it seeks for a public offering.
          Although PGP has no immediate plans to go public, company
          officials intend to review these investment schedules this
          summer, Nelson said.

          Related Wired Links:
          PGP's Export Solution: Stamps, Envelopes
          by James Glave

          PGP Zooms into Corporate Security
          by Spencer E. Ante

          PGP Lets You Take Charge of Your Cookies
          by James Glave

          Beat That Tap - It's PGP For Sale
          by David Lazarus

          [arrow]

   [Image]
     Find Read a story in the Wired News archive.
 Feedback Let us know how we're doing.
      TipsHave a story or tip for Wired News? Send it.

Copyright (c) 1993-97 Wired Ventures, Inc. and affiliated companies.
All rights reserved.



