From: TruthMonger <tm@dev.null>
Date: Mon, 8 Dec 1997 03:01:06 +0800
To: Secret Squirrel <nobody@secret.squirrel.owl.de>
Subject: It's Sunday
In-Reply-To: <8cffbee92e0dc04390f8a269534a5dd2@squirrel>
Message-ID: <348AC569.5793@dev.null>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



[It's early Sunday morning I'm having my first beer of the day 
 I've got a couple of hours to kill before the ball games begin
 Chances of this email being at all meaningful are mighty slim
 I'm sending it to everyone in my address book, nonetheless
 I guess it's my way of touching base once a year in order to
 let my friends know there is still a risk of my showing up on
 their doorstep unannounced, and to remind my enemies that they
 should quit procrastinating and get the scope on their sniper
 rifle fixed And all without saying "Fuck Christmas" 
 Damn! I just said it...]
 

Secret Squirrel cracked open his left nut, and out came
the following Colonel of wisdom:

> >Mr. Frissell asserts that Germany lacks rights such as freedom 
> >of speech and association.
> >This is not true.
> >The German Basic Law provides for everyone the right to freedom of speech,
> >religion and association.
> >However, Germany prohibits hate speech i.e. National Socialism and
> >incitement to racial, religious and national hatred.
> >The reason for this exception is the German history.
 
> And thus there is no true freedom of speech and such in Germany. I can
> either say "Fuck the Jews" or I can't. I can either say "Bill Gates can blow
> me" or I can't. I can either post naked pictures of myself or I can't. (And
> yes, this means that there is no true freedom of speech and such in the
> United States either.)
> 
> Nice try.

  After spending what might be considered an inordinate amount of
time seeking an ISP which will allow me to put a picture on my web 
site of Bill Gates blowing me and fucking a Jew while I am naked,
I consider myself somewhat of an unofficial expert on freedom of
speech.
  To badly paraphrase Harry Browne, "You have a right to say 
whatever your mom and dad don't slap you silly (and send you to
bed without your supper) for saying."

INFANTILE JOKE ALERT!!!
  Little Johnny and little Billy come to the breakfast table.
  Mom says, "Little Johnny, what do you want for breakfast?"
  Little Johnny says, "I want a fucking bowl of cornflakes!"
  Mom slaps little Johnny silly and sends him to his room 
without breakfast. She then asks, "Little Billy, what do
_you_ want for breakfast?", giving him a stern warning look.
  Little Billy thinks for a second, and says, "Well, mom. You
can bet your sweet, fucking ass that I don't want a bowl of
cornflakes!"

  Hesse says, "We make our gods and do battle with them, and they
bless us." I say that the same applies to our devils and their
curses. 
  There is a reason why bartenders say, "Name your poison."

  Some of us want to live in a "free" country where 'evil' things
like pornography and hate speech are outlawed. (Overlooking the
fact that we are guilty of disguised nakedness and also guilty
of hating hate speech.)
  Some of us want to live in a "free" country where we are allowed
to carry guns to defend ourselves against those who would oppress
us. (Overlooking the fact that CypherPunks are living proof that
this invariably results in one shooting oneself in the foot, since
"We have met the enemy, and he is us!")
  Some of us want to live in a "free" country where pornography is
outlawed, but freely available (so we can still get a vicarious 
thrill from it); where hate speech is prohibited, but Micro$haft
jokes are required (by law); where guns are freely available, but
they all shoot 'both' ways (meaning you have to really, really
want someone dead before you shoot them).

MYTH EXPOSURE WARNING!!!
  "Recidivism" is the natural impulse of us all, not just the
officially recognized criminals amoung us.
  I broke out of prison, once. In order to assure that 'they' could
not recapture me, I built a concrete fortress with high walls, and
I put armed guards in towers at the corners. I put locked, barred
doors on all the rooms, so that myself and my guests are safe. I
hired armed guards to patrol my fortress in order to maintain the
order and discipline needed to ensure eveyone's safety. I never
leave the comfort and safety of my fortress.
  Hence I am now assured that they will never take me back to prison.
Never...

  Well, it looks like I was right about this being a pretty lame,
meaningless missive.
  I think I'll spend the rest of the day putting up "God's Canadian
Hate Speech Page" at: 
http://www3.sk.sympatico.ca/carljohn/godhate/godhate.htm
  After all, it's Sunday.

Toto/TruthMonger/C.J.Parker/sog/sonofgomez/Anonymous
"And A Multiple Schizoid Personality Fracture To Be Named Later"

p.s. -
CORRECTION: 
The following should be followed by the following: "or vice-versa"
[I guess it's my way of touching base once a year in order to
 let my friends know there is still a risk of my showing up on
 their doorstep unannounced, and to remind my enemies that they
 should quit procrastinating and get the scope on their sniper
 rifle fixed]

p.p.s. - Since I can only Blind CC: so many people at a time, and I
  am too fucking lazy to edit out the original Reply To: recipients,
  this will result in a number of duplicate spams going to those
  addresses.
  At the risk of sounding like a hypocrite who will use things she
  does not believe in to serve his own self-interest, I would like
  to remind the whiners out there that it would be a bad idea to
  complain to or seek retribution on me this close to the yearly
  visit of a certain Jolly Old Bearded Fat Man. (hint: not me--the
  old fart who prefers 'nice' girls, not 'naughty' ones)






