From: nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)
Date: Wed, 30 Jul 1997 08:59:53 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Screw SAFE / Re: Majority in house support SAFE encryption bill, from SPAlert
Message-ID: <199707300043.CAA23727@basement.replay.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



> MAJORITY IN HOUSE SUPPORT PASSAGE OF ENCRYPTION BILL

> "On the other side of Capitol Hill, however, the
> ghost of J. Edgar Hoover lurks in the cloakrooms of the Senate.  Rather
> than taking a courageous stand for America, some Senators would rather
> follow the administration's play book, trading personal freedoms for what
> they themselves admit is only marginal improvement."

  Screw SAFE, and screw the Senate.
  The Military-Industrial complex is switching their web network to
utilize the tools developed by the free market. The reason is that
the anal-retentive robots that they employee are incapable of
producing products and services at the same level as those which
are produced by free men.
  Let the fascist fucks in the Senate and at the DOD fiddle while 
D.C. burns. Let them fuck up the American crypto industry with Brave
New Clipper Chips while free men in other countries develop the
technology that will enable them to slip the Pentagon a cold, hard
one up the butt and free us from the bulimic Senate swine.

  It's better that we should let foreigners with strong crypto take
care of nuking D.C. for us. Perhaps this is what Clinton's Chinese
campaign contributors have in mind. Perhaps the Chinese are actually
the ones behind the scenes calling the shots in the Whithouse stand
on opposing strong U.S.-developed encryption.
  No doubt foreign spies and terrorists are vocal supporters of the
Whitehouse's stance on encryption and key escrow. (As are the
money-grubbers who can't wait to take advantage of having access
to corporate America's private communications.)

  I guess those who have given up their guns to those who oppose the
Constitution should start taking some foreign language classes.

TruthMonger





