From: dlv@bwalk.dm.com (Dr.Dimitri Vulis KOTM)
Date: Sun, 12 Jan 1997 07:30:23 -0800 (PST)
To: ichudov@algebra.com (Igor Chudov)
Subject: Re: A vote of no confidence for Sandfart
In-Reply-To: <199701120729.BAA03801@manifold.algebra.com>
Message-ID: <4qaF1D74w165w@bwalk.dm.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


ichudov@algebra.com (Igor Chudov @ home) writes:

> Nurdane Oksas wrote:
> > 	You know well that Kagalenko is most rejected in scrm,
> > 	Poor guy ...not one post, how can that be..?
>
> How can that be? A good question. It can be because Misha submits
> dozens of articles containing autogenerated garbage. He does it because

How do you know his submissions are "autogenerated" and not typed in by hand?

> he does not like our newsgroup. We moderators have no other choice
> but to reject these autogenerated articles because our charter prohibits
> us from approving them.

But the charter does not stop the moderators from calling K. "eunich",
just like the proposed "cypher punk" moderation won't stop Timmy May
from calling Dave Hayes "colored" or me "crazy Russian" or Plucky Green
from calling me and aga "vermin".

Please define "autogenerated" and "garbage". What definition does your
charter use to prohibit you from approving them? Why did you approve
Misha's submissions for a while after s.c.r.m was created? Has your
charter been since amended?

I too submitted a few articles to s.c.r.m as a test. The first one was
rejected (anonymously, by the way) with a statement indicating that I'm
not welcome to post anything in s.c.r.m regardless of content. The
others just vanished in a black hole - they didn't show up in the feed,
and I got no rejection notices. It looks like I've been blacklisted too.

That's why the lovebirds Gilmore and Sandfart want to moderate this list.

Again, this reminds me how around Xmastime there was a mail loop involving
the "cypher punks" mailing list and the site "uhf.wirenet.net", which
kept recycling old posts and resubmitting them to the list. In particular,
several of my articles appeared multiple times. Unfortunately, mail loops
happen. One of my mailing lists has been up since '89 and had probably
3 or 4 mail loops - caused by software glitches, not anyone sabotage.

Ray Arachelian officially accused me of having caused the mail loop and
posted instructions for complaining to my upstream site (not that PSI
gives a fuck) - both to the (currently unmoderated) "cypher punks"
list and Ray's "filtered" version.  I replied and refuted Ray's lies.

My refutation never made it to Ray's filtered list - only to this
(still unmoderated) list. Now Gilmore and Sandfart want to take away
their victims' ability to refute their libels (at least partially) by
moderating this list as well and blacklisting their victims.

No wonder Ray Arachelian's accusations have never been retracted by
him or Gilmore, and no explanation of the ufh.wirenet.net mail loop
other than "the Vulis did it" has been offered; no wonder we now see
traffic from root@ufh.wirenet.net calling for moderation and blacklisting.

> To protect moderators from mailbombing our charter tells us to put
> such mailbombers into our blacklist, which I do.

Beautiful. I'm already on Timmy May's "don't hire" list. Who do you think
will be on Gilmore's and Sandfart's autorejection blacklist for "cypher
punks"? I suppose it'll include:
                aga
                Attila T. Hun
                Dale Thorn
                Dave Hayes
                Dorothy Denning (just in case)
                Dr. Dimitri V. (myself)
                Fred Cohen
                George S.
                Ross Wright
                Steve Boursy
                Toto
Any others whose submissions will be automatically discarded by Gilmore?

ObCocksuckerMention: asshole censor John Gilmore is a stupid cocksucker.

---

Dr.Dimitri Vulis KOTM
Brighton Beach Boardwalk BBS, Forest Hills, N.Y.: +1-718-261-2013, 14.4Kbps




