From: Charles Platt <cp@panix.com>
Date: Sat, 8 Mar 1997 20:19:58 -0800 (PST)
To: Vincent Cate <vince@offshore.com.ai>
Subject: Re: Anguilla is not Marxist!
In-Reply-To: <Pine.LNX.3.95.970308233855.31226H-100000@online.offshore.com.ai>
Message-ID: <Pine.SUN.3.91.970308231018.27226E-100000@panix.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Now, Vince, calm down! Contrary to your subject line, I never remotely
suggested that Marxism runs rampant in sunny Anguilla. I merely observed
that your Minister of Finance did choose an educational institution
notorious for Marxist ideology. The Minister may have undergone a radical
change in his ideas since then (AS I SAID IN THE TEXT THAT I POSTED TO THE
GROUP!). I did not blame him for the phone monopoly, merely pointed out
that government in Anguilla does not seem much into the idea of
competitive bids, generally speaking. You can hardly object to this
statement, since you said as much to me yourself! 

Incidentally, the same text was circulated to Lynwood Bell of Hansa Bank, 
who made detailed corrections of some of my statements about his 
institution, but where the Minister of Finance was concerned, made only a 
wry, amused comment.

On Sun, 9 Mar 1997, Vincent Cate wrote:

> Hold it right there!  There is no Marxism or socialism in Anguilla.  We
> don't even have income tax!  They are not busy redistributing wealth here. 
> They let you keep your own wealth in Anguilla.  Get a clue!

My text was not intended to imply anything of this kind.

> The current minister of finance is not at all responsible for the Cable
> and Wireless monopoly.  It was the previous government that set them up
> and the current government is not happy about it. 

Well, this is more relevant--but what do you mean, "not happy"? Is there 
a policy statement, a public remark I can quote?

> Please.  Be reasonable.

Sorry, but I think your reaction is a bit unreasonable. I'll certainly
rephrase my text if you sincerely feel it suggests that Marxism thrives in
Anguilla. But I thought the context made it clear that the country is just
a sleepy little British colony with zero corporate/personal taxes and some
bad habits left over from the Brits--such as a government-owned radio
station and a horrible phone system. 

--Charles





