From: Anonymous <anon@anon.efga.org>
Date: Sun, 30 Nov 1997 19:46:13 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Anti-Message
Message-ID: <f4032a4ed89492586e92c98454eb81bb@anon.efga.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Anonymous wrote:
> 
> "On the Internet nobody knows I'm a dog unless I want them to,"
> to rephrase a well known cartoon.

  Wasn't that Toto, explaining why he/she is a Master Baiter of
Deception?

> Anonymous wrote:
> 
> >Cypherpunk technologies will be a major force to eliminate racism.
> >With privacy protected transactions, the color of a person's skin, his
> >religion and his ethnicity are no longer apparent.

  This is why it is essential to take every opportunity to attack
the virtual ethinicity of nyms such as NoNookie Masturbateshi.
  In a world that threatens to reduce us all to a nameless, faceless
collection of bits and bytes, ones and zeros, it is essential that
we hang on, as long as possible, to those things which may serve as
tools to separate us from one another, thus helping to keep us from 
becoming nothing more than generic fodder for the New Electronic 
World Order.

> >Cypherpunks need to build bridges to minority communities, to show them
> >how these technologies can advance their cause.

  Cypherpunks need to burn bridges to the wolves clothing themselves
with the flag of democracy, who are attempting to form us all into
'equal' socialist cogs designed to serve the Evil Machine.
  Cypherpunks need to show minorities how new technologies can be
used to retain and strengthen the differences between individuals,
and to evolve new, virtual minorities.

> Why not set up a website where minority websurfers could go to read about
> privacy issues and how pseudonymity is to their (and everyone's) benefit.

  So that we can live in a world where hockey players are no longer
allowed to settle their own differences and do their time in the
penalty box, but are, instead, sent for 'sensitivity training' when
they commit Politically Incorrect infractions during a game?

> After all, how can another person discriminate against you when that person
> knows practically nothing about you (e.g., name, age, race, religion,
> geographic location, etc)?  

  Easy as pie...
  They can discriminate against you based on the virtual model of 
you that they build, based on what you reveal about yourself via 
your thoughts and attitudes, you young, commie-pinko, nigger-loving,
Jew-hating, northern lattitude, piece of shit cocksucker!

> This would be an excellent way to expand
> cypherpunk technologies, don't you think?

  Fuck no!
  Cypherpunk technologies should be used to enable individuals to
build and join in new ElectroMagnetic minorities of their own choosing,
as they find their individuality being slowly stripped away by the 
New DEMOCoRporATIC World Order.
  Cypherpunks should prepare the citizens of the Information Age to
use and develop the ElectroMagnetic tools which will allow us to
survive in freedom, choosing our own allies and enemies, our own
fate, in a virtual world where wars will be fought over privacy,
access, bandwidth, virtual identity...

  ElectroMagnetic Hitler only wants .gov...
  "They came for the 0's, and I wasn't a 0, so I didn't speak up..."
  When Freeh was Fuhrer, the email ran on time...
  From each, according to his CPU speed--to each, according to his 
    baud-rate...
  Give me access, or give me death...
  The rights of the citizen to encrypt data shall not be abridged...

Nervous






