From: Bill Stewart <billstewart@mail.att.net>
Date: Thu, 20 Mar 1997 20:12:09 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Mobile IP Resources -- Analysis of Security and Privacy in Mobile IP
Message-ID: <33320A48.3BE8@mail.att.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain

An anonymous poster to alt.cypherpunks recommended the attached article.
http://www.neda.com/mobileIpSurvey/html/mobileIP_37.html

Title: Mobile IP Resources -- Analysis of Security and Privacy in Mobile IP










Go backward to Improving Reliable Transport and Handoff Performance in Cellular Wireless Networks

Go up to Mobile IP Research and Technical papers

Go forward to Variable and Scalable Security: Protection of Location Information in Mobile IP


Analysis of Security and Privacy in Mobile IP
http://www-i4.informatik.rwth-aachen.de/~andreas/PAPERS/SecurityPerformance.ps.gz
Authors: A. Fasbender, D. Kesdogan, and O. Kubitz 
Date: March 1996 
In this paper we present a possible extension of the proposed Mobile 
IP and route optimization protocols, the Non-Disclosure 
Method (NDM). It prevents the tracking of user movements by 
third parties and gives mobile users control over the revelation of 
their location information, according to their personal security 
demands.
We give an overview on Mobile IP protocols and briefly 
discuss these protocols in terms of security issues. We show 
that confidential location management in Mobile IP is an 
unsolved problem. Then we propose our method for 
providing untraceable communications in packet-oriented mobile networks.
NDM is based on the idea of mixes, which 
has been suggested by Chaum for hiding the originator addresses of electronic 
mails. Our algorithm prevents the linkability of sender and recipient addresses 
in Mobile IP, can be easily adopted to other mobility 
supporting networks as well. We conclude our paper with performance 
aspects, discussing the trade-off between the level of 
security provided and the costs of NDM in terms of increased 
packet transmission delays. For this purpose, we present 
a new modelling approach for Internet connections, which is 
based on empirically derived packet delay distributions and 
their analytical description. Our results show that the 
overhead for confidential location management is not 
as critical as might be expected, and that a considerable 
delay reduction compared to mixes can be achieved.


info@neda.com









