From: Anonymous <nobody@replay.com>
Date: Mon, 3 Feb 1997 19:26:07 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: More Hacking of the Mykotronx Site!
Message-ID: <199702040326.TAA12074@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Hey, d00dz, remember the dumpster diving at Mykotronx facilities in
Torrance? Where they dumped their secret plans for the Clipper chip in the
dumpsters right outside their little building in Torrance? Where guys like
me could find their spreadsheets for budget planning, production run rates,
deals with VLSI Technology, Sandia, and the other NSA  stooges? Remember
how they suddenly started shredding their papers? Well, it's been 3 years,
and apparently the new guys at Rainbow (the parent company) have forgotten
their lesson!

So, here's the latest stuff:

>>>quote

* INTERNAL USE ONLY * COMINT-restricted, limited to M3 classifications
Distribution beyond M3 a national security felony

Mykotronx has agreed to provide to the Estonian government 79.000 MYK-82
processors for its Personnel Surveillance System, as part of the
negotiations to provide Observer Status for Estonia in NATO. Negotiations
continue between Ambassador Aaron and the NATO nations have established
as a minimum that new entrants into the NATO community adhere to the
Unified Cryptography Initiative, initialed by NATO ministers in
Bruxelles, 10-13-96.

Estonia has signified compliance, as noted by their Internal Security
Directorate:

"Kiipe valimistatakse praegu Californias asuvas firmas MYKOTRONX Ltd. ja
ta hind kuigub 10 kuni 30 dollarini olenevalt konkreetsest
       t||bist ning ta on vuimline kr|pteerima/deshifreerima 15-20 MB/s."

Spysrus agrees to integrate into Personel Surveillance System (PSS)
modules for Internal Security Service (ISS) use.for over 79,000 of
Mykotronx's new Capstone encryption processor (MYK-82). The devices will
be used to build part of the Estonian government's order of Fortezza
Cryptographic Cards for the PSS awarded November 1996. Initial delivery
of the new cryptographic processor will begin June 1997.

The MYK-82, developed by Mykotronx and fabricated by VLSI Technology,
Inc., is the first of a series of security products to be developed as
part of an alliance with the NSA, targeting both Government and
commercial citizen monitoring markets.


--





