From: naoqize@worldnet.att.net (Someone Who Cares!)
Date: Wed, 3 Sep 1997 15:22:51 -0700 (PDT)
To: naoqize@worldnet.att.net
Subject: READ THIS, THIS IS NOT JUNK E-MAIL!!!
Message-ID: <199709031043VAA806@post.ix.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


<HTML><PRE><BODY BGCOLOR="#000000"><FONT COLOR="#00FFFF" SIZE=3>
Have you ever noticed that when you are bigger than usual, people look at you when you eat?  
It seems that what they want to tell you is "You wouldn't be this big if you didn't eat all 
this stuff!"

Hi, my name is Ed.  I am a real person who lives in Palm Springs, CA.  And until a year ago I 
was the fat guy that everybody was looking at. Believe me, I had no life!  I didn't go out, 
I couldn't shop at regular stores (well, for shoes may be), I was too embarassed to go to the 
pool when there were people around.  Hey, if you are one of the 80% percent of Americans who 
are overweight, you know how I felt!  But I wasn't simply overweight, I was fat!  My height 
is 5'9" and I weighed 290 lbs! 

Over 2-3 years I tried miriads of different diets.  Guess what, they did not work!  I would even 
try to starve myself, but I just didn't have the guts to do it for more than one day.
Then I turned for help to the doctor, this was the last resort!  To myself I was thinking "If 
the doctor doesn't help, nobody will.  I'll just eat till my heart stops!"  Well, guess what he 
did?  He prescribed Phen-Fen!  Have you listened to the news lately?!  Need I say more?

And then a miracle happened!  My uncle (who is a businessman and travels a lot) said he had one 
thing that could save my life.  Believe me, I wasn't very optimistic.  But when I looked through 
it I said to myself "Hey, I can do this and what do I have to lose except for a 100 lbs"  That 
was the only thing that did not require strenuous physical activities, chemicals or herbs, or any
exotic food supplements - I could get anything I needed from the store!  Sounds too good to be true?  
It did to me!

To make the story short, I lost 8 lbs in my first week, and have been loosing weight ever since (whopping 
110 lbs)!  I couldn't believe it!  I was melting day after day after day!  Then I recommended the 
diet to my friends and relatives, who needed to lose as little as 5 lbs and as much as 60 lbs.  
All together we lost 480 lbs!  That's twice me a year ago!  Later I found out, that this program 
(not a diet!) is used by hospitals worldwide for patients with heart condition.  Those folks can 
not wait a year to lose 50 lbs, they need to be in the operation room as soon as possible, 40-50 lbs 
thinner.

Today I decided to bring YOU this extraordinary opportunity.  With minimal effort and minimal investment you 
can change your life forever! Ask yourself one question, "Am I worth it?", and if the answer is "yes", take 
the action.  Do it for yourselves and your loved ones!  You have nothing to lose, except for all those bulges 
and dress and pant sizes!  ACT NOW, for the first 1000 customers will receive 15 wonderful gourmet recipies to 
help you maintain the desired weight.  The recipies alone were advertised for $25, and the response was overwhelming.  
Today you have an opportunity to receive them for free, just for believing in yourseelf, and for taking a step 
towards a healthy, thin lifestyle!

To get this complete miracle program, please send a single payment (check or money order) of $14.95 (including S&H) to:

VIK Enterprises
3940 Laurel Canyon Blvd., Suite #292
Studio City, CA  91604

Please enclose your e-mail address, or mailing address if you prefer to have it mailed to you.  
Allow 7-10 days for delivery, after which you will be on your way to a fabulous new you!  
CA residents please add 8.25% sales tax.


</FONT><FONT  COLOR="#000000" SIZE=3>





