From: imakumon@ix.netcom.com
Date: Wed, 8 Jan 1997 11:46:44 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: NEW SERVICE
Message-ID: <199701081946.LAA08029@dfw-ix1.ix.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Hello,_Morons,

          Future Tech Invites You To Preview ITA International
                   and A New Trillion Dollar Industry!

Have you ever been to a smorgasboard? Wasn't it GREAT to have so many choices? 
How would YOU like to have a smorgasboard of choices in your communications? A
Virtual Office!! Guess what! Now you can!!

ESA is the busy persons Electronic Secretarial Adminstrator! She is amazing!
She will place calls. answer calls, send and receive faxes, send voice messages,
page you, find you, follow you and much, much more! ESA will do this and more
from anywhere in the world! ESA can actually read you your faxes if you choose.
How would you like to be reminded of special events, meetings, birthdays and
even have calls placed for you when you are not around? It can now be done! 
Want to know who is on the line before you talk to them? Your Virtual Office 
can tell you. She will screen all your calls so you will have no wasted time
on any of your phones or your cellular phone. If you choose not to talk to 
someone you send them to your voice mail. Unbelieveable!! No matter what business
you are in ESA can make your life easier. An inbound 800 # at an unheard of 9.9 
cents per minute is excellent. Also, you can have long distance at 9.9 cents on 
all your phone lines! ESA just keeps getting better and better!

Coming soon you will be able to get your e-mail through ESA and have it read to
you or printed out, or both. Your choice! Conference calling and voice notification
are on the way. All these exciting features and so much more! And guess what! There 
is so much more coming in this new TRILLION dollar industry it will continue to be amazing!

If you live in or near Atlanta Georgia join us for an informative meeting on
Thursday Jan 9 at 7pm and discove how you can capitalize on this exciting opportunity!
SEATING IS LIMITED!!!

If you would like to know more about subscribing to this premier and exciting service,
information on becoming a distributor or information on meetings please call our
toll free 888 # below.

WELCOME TO THE FUTURE!!!

Future Tech
1-888-213-2139 --- #1 Stuart  /  #2 Eileen  / #3 Voice on Demand  /  #7 Fax on Demand

e-mail address - ft2100@discoveryonline.com

Stuart & Eileen

DISCLAIMER - We do relize that this e-mail will reach individuals who do not wish to 
receive this information. If you do not wish to receive any further e-mails from us 
please let us know. We are sorry for the intrusion.

 





