From: Alan Olsen <alan@ctrl-alt-del.com>
Date: Sun, 22 Jun 1997 11:49:00 +0800
To: cypherpunks@Algebra.COM
Subject: McCain Talks Crypto
Message-ID: <3.0.2.32.19970621204242.04307430@mail.teleport.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



This guy needs to connect to a clue server soon before it is too late...


http://www.wired.com/news/politics/story/4588.html           

           McCain Talks Crypto
           by Todd Lappin 

           6:04pm  20.Jun.97.PDT Just got off the phone with Senator
           John McCain. 

           It has been a big week for the Republican from
           Arizona. On Monday, he and Senator Bob Kerrey
           (D-Nebraska) dropped a bomb on the encryption
           debate. They introduced S909, the Secure Public
           Networks Act, a bill that would write into law most of
           the Clinton administration's encryption policy -
           leviathan key recovery system, continued restraints
           on exporting strong encryption, the whole bit. Then,
           leveraging his chairmanship of the Senate
           Commerce Committee, he pushed the bill onto a
           legislative fast track. Despite the fact that his bill cuts
           the legs from under Pro-CODE - a bill by Montana
           Republican Conrad Burns that would scrap the
           export controls - McCain said he's eager to negotiate
           on the issues. 

           Here are the highlights of our 5-minute conversation
           - during which a certain two-word term was repeated
           again and again. Let's see if you can spot it. 

           On the rationale behind S909:
           "I've always said that national security is a primary
           concern - and based on my own experience [nearly
           six years as a Vietnam POW], I've had a lot of time to
           consider how important that really is." 

           On the software industry:
           "Frankly, I'm somewhat surprised that the software
           industry would be so willing to downplay the dangers
           of child porn.... This stuff is out there, and we can't
           allow child pornographers to hide by encrypting that
           material." 

           "... I'm astonished that any industry would consider
           their priorities to be so important that they override
           national security concerns." 

           On the rival Pro-CODE bill:
           "I'm all for Pro-CODE - except for its impact on
           national security. 

           On the future:
           "I promise you, now that we've adopted this
           legislation, we will sit down and work this out with all
           the parties involved. As I've said before, from a
           practical standpoint, we can't override a presidential
           veto. With this bill, we've established that the
           president of the United States has authority over
           national security." 





