From: "Attila T. Hun" <attila@hun.org>
Date: Tue, 28 Oct 1997 00:29:03 +0800
To: cypherpunks <cypherpunks@cyberpass.net>
Subject: Tim's worst nightmare.,..
Message-ID: <3454BF94.7ED3@hun.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----


    here we go again, the AP wire just laid on this morning's
    action at Roby IL --it sounds to close to Ruby Ridge for
    my taste. This is beyond police harassment and save face
    for what was a civil action and will now end up with the
    poor lady wearing a ciminal jacket longer than her life.

October 27, 1997
Woman in Standoff Shoots at Police
Filed at 10:12 a.m.  EST
By The Associated Press

ROBY, Ill.  (AP) -- Gunfire rang out again at the home of a woman
involved in a month-long standoff with authorities who have a
court order to bring her in for psychological testing.

Shirley Allen shot a police dog through the nose Sunday after
officers threw pepper spray into her farmhouse, state police
director Terrance Gainer said.

    well, wouldn't you if the dog is put in your house...

She also fired a shot when police used mirrors on long sticks to
peer in, but no one was injured, Gainer said.

    well, wouldn't you?

Gainer said sound detection equipment had picked up a conversation
Mrs.  Allen had with herself on Friday in which she sounded as if
she was ``moving closer to suicide,'' followed by a long period of
inactivity.

    33 days the lady has stood off a virtual army who cut off her
    power, water, and telephone --wouldn't you talk to yourself 
    for company. hell, who wouldn't commit suicide rather than
    face the scheiBesturm she faces when they finally "bag" her.

That prompted police to drive an all-terrain vehicle around her
back yard Sunday, break her windows and a sliding glass door,
throw in nine canisters of pepper spray and send in a German
shepherd wired for sound.  She fired once at the dog, Gainer said.
The dog was taken to a veterinary hospital for treatment.

    shit, let's airdrop her a dozen TOW missles. she can put them
    to good use. nine canisters of pepper spray --who the hell 
    do the think they are? Los Angeles police beating Rodney King?

Mrs.  Allen, 51, has attracted the sympathy of many neighbors, and
her case has become a rallying point for those who compare it to
Ruby Ridge and Waco as an example of overzealous law enforcement.

    she needs more than sympathy, she needs some action!

Gainer said Mrs.  Allen's actions show that she is dangerous and
prove that state police cannot back off and leave her alone
because she is a threat to herself and to others.

    she wasnt dangerous until the bastards violated her privacy;
    all over the fact a greedy nephew wants to get control of
    the valuable 40 some acres. most of the family say she's fine,
    but the liberal press does not report that fairly.

The standoff, about 20 miles southeast of Springfield, started
Sept.  22 when she used a shotgun to resist sheriff's deputies
serving commitment papers obtained by her family.  Relatives said
Mrs.  Allen, a former nurse, had become increasingly depressed
after her husband died of pancreatic cancer in 1989 and recently
began refusing to see or talk to her mother and brother.

    hell, if your relatives are being assholes, you can turn the
    switch off there, too.  a telephone is solely for calling out
    with --and connecting to the net....





-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.6.3i
Charset: latin1
Comment: No safety this side of the grave. Never was; never will be

iQBVAwUBNFS9zrR8UA6T6u61AQFctgH+OKh2NXtQrujbVnCmIQu7NVcyih66RgKe
VdC36i2c30GRxCwLtXWWRKz5FXcAXXoTzlWPQ+7qHS+PtcE7sjiXOA==
=HOw2
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----





