From: Tim May <tcmay@got.net>
Date: Wed, 21 May 1997 01:53:12 +0800
To: cypherpunks@cyberpass.net
Subject: The USA is the world's biggest terrorist state
In-Reply-To: <ZwoH7D8w165w@bwalk.dm.com>
Message-ID: <v03007801afa798af0cca@[207.167.93.63]>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


At 8:23 AM -0800 5/20/97, Attila T. Hun wrote:

>    as to trivializing tim may as to wine and for his comment below on
>    OKC, if the gubmit becomes a terrorist state (and who is to deny
>    that it is not, and has not been this century), then the terrorist
>    much expect retaliation.

The United States of America sits astride the world, holding the riding
crop and ordering the other nations of the world around in various ways. It
sends troops to distant parts of the world. It even takes on the main
"peacekeeping" (meaning: choosing a faction and suppressing the other
factions) role in Yugoslavia...surely a European problem, if a problem at
all.

(I say let the Bosnians, Serbs, Croatians, Albanians, Macedonians, etc.
massacre each other. That my tax dollars, and American lives, are being
spent in this "Balkanized nonsurprise" are criminal. If infowar and
terrorism are needed to destabilize the U.S. Military-Industrial War
Machine, then I guess that's what's needed. Period.)

The USA is without any doubts the largest economic and political power. And
it uses threat of military intervention to influence other terrorist
states. It's military budget remains bloated far beyond any reasonable
response to realistic threats. It is, of course, the world's policeman.
Worse, the world's secret policeman. (Lest you doubt this, it trained, and
continues to train, the torturers in Africa and South America. It issued
the CIA manual on assassinations and torturings, and it taught several
armies how to encourage prisoners to talk by throwing some of them out of
helicopters. Now it is training the former KGB and related folks in how to
wage a War on Drugs and Civil Rights in their countries. I wonder if the
helicopter trick is still being taught?)


Meanwhile, the alleged civil rights and cyber liberties groups are arguing
"it's the best deal we can get" while dozens of new restrictions on speech
and encryption are being promulgated. And so on. (I could give a dozen
examples, from DiFi's "bomb-making instructions ban" to forcing the Playboy
Channel off cable systems until 10 p.m. to restrictions on speech about
what an acceptable employee applicant is (Hint: Don't say that Ebonics is
unacceptable, else face fines).

The only valid point of view is to reject all limits on basic rights. And
since mere rejection of the points of view of the NSA, EPIC, CIA, CPSR,
DIA, EFF, DEA, etc. is not enough, to sabotage companies which work with
these stooges.

(Many Cypherpunks are now working for these companies which have decided to
"play ball" with David Aaron, George Tenet, Louis Freeh, and the others. I
hope you are considering what options exist to undermine and sabotage such
efforts. The Cypherpunks meeting in March generated some good ideas.)

And one of our own is arrested on almost certainly trumped up charges
designed to play well in the media (botulism in the water, Sarin in the
air...they probably found some Loompanics and Paladin Press books on how to
make nerve gases and other poisons...freely available, and I have some
myself).


>    The US in this century, at one point or another in time, has
>    destabilized 90%+ of the world governments, including the Labour
>    Party in GB prior to Iron Maggie's rule (and if you want names of
>    the phony US Dept of State consular employees involved, a pointer
>    can be provided).

The United States of America is the world's leading terrorist state. From
mining harbors in countries with democratically elected governments to
financing the blowing up of airliners by dissident groups to assassinating
dozens of leaders of countries the USA wished to shape in different
directions, the USA is Terror State Numero Uno.

Destabilizing a terror state is, I think, a moral thing to do.



>    as for the great fairweather liberal bigot Blanc's passing it off
>    as tcm's drunken ramblings, I doubt it.  war is hell, and
>    "innocents" get wasted --but, a society at war has no innocents.
>    blow 'em all away.  scorched earth is inadequate; burnt earth is
>    more effective. if there are no prisoners, there are no
>    complainers.

As I said at the time, Blanc's cheap shot was an incoherent form of
criticism. As I write much the same things morning, noon, and night (check
the timings of my posts), either I'm drunk at all hours of the day, or
these are my overall views.

You folks can decide for yourselves.

I noticed with interest this morning that Peter Trei had an interesting
thought experiment for implementing a variant of assassination politics.
Interesting because not much more than a week or two ago Peter was making
the point that I seemed to have gone off the deep end, or at least was no
longer writing "thoughtful" essays and/or was not focussing on what he
wanted to read about (a hopeless task, of course, to tune one's writings to
the interests of others).

Peter has now thrown in with the "let's see how AP might work." His
variant, "Who do we want to see hit with a bus?," is of course essentially
identical to AP.

"Has Peter lost it with these rantings?"

And of course we have Declan McCullagh, a reasonable fellow, saying that
we'd better restrain ourselves or the government will do it for us.

(One wonders if the First Amendment is still being taught in journalism
school.)

Hey, maybe Swinestein will introduce a new law to stop discussions of
freedom of speech. "It Takes a Village," after all.

--Tim May

There's something wrong when I'm a felon under an increasing number of laws.
Only one response to the key grabbers is warranted: "Death to Tyrants!"
---------:---------:---------:---------:---------:---------:---------:----
Timothy C. May              | Crypto Anarchy: encryption, digital money,
tcmay@got.net  408-728-0152 | anonymous networks, digital pseudonyms, zero
W.A.S.T.E.: Corralitos, CA  | knowledge, reputations, information markets,
Higher Power: 2^1398269     | black markets, collapse of governments.
"National borders aren't even speed bumps on the information superhighway."








