From: TruthMonger <tm@dev.null>
Date: Fri, 28 Nov 1997 22:21:10 +0800
To: remailer-politics@server1.efga.org
Subject: Re: [RePol] BCC IN REMAILERS
In-Reply-To: <199711280951.CAA12273@euromail.com>
Message-ID: <347ECDD4.77F7@dev.null>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Jay Stotzky wrote:
> On 28 Nov 97 at 0:19, Denizen wrote:
> <text snipped>
 
> Whatever.  Hope what you're doing doesn't backfire on any remailer
> operators, Rich.  That'd be a real shame.

  What I love most about self-righteous jackasses is that I can usually
count on picking up a little extra beer money by betting that their last
post to a thread where they have had their ass kicked, they will crawl
out on their bellies with some lame, moralistic equivalent of,
"Yeah, but when that single child (TM) dies, _you_ will be the one who 
 is responsible for their death. (Pictures at 11!)"
OR
"Sure, light bulb jokes are funny...until someone burns a retina."

  Hay, Jay...why don't you shoot twenty 'innocent' citizens at random
every time someone 'abuses' a remailer? Then you can point out how 
many needless deaths could be prevented by ratting out one's friends
to the remailer Gestapo. (And be sure to make everyone aware that
use of the letter, 'n', is 'abuse', in *your* definintion.)

BIG FUCKING NEWS FLASH, JACK!!!
  In the universal scheme of things, there _is_no_ abuse!

  If you read the chapter on rights in "How I Found Freedom In An 
Unfree World" and thought Harry Browne was being 'cute' with his 
one-liner, 
"People have a right to do to you whatever you can't stop them from
 doing."
then you might try reading it again without your hand down the front
of your pants.


HOW TO KNOW WHEN YOU'RE A FASCIST NAZI--TIP #7:
"The only people who should use the word 'we' are kings, priests and
people with tapeworms."

  Heigh, Jay...I may be a liar, an asshole and a forger, but at least
I lead with my balls. When I take it upon myself to speak for all
cypherpunks on the face of the earth, I try to do it as the "Chief
CypherPunks SpokesPerson," and not by trying to slip the "Royal WE"
up everyone's butt through the back door (redundant?).

  There ain't no 'we' when the Feds knock on a remailer's door, any
more than there is a 'we' in Jim Bell's WorldWide Conspiracy.

  Someone posts a simple question to a remailer list asking which
remailers support a certain function, and your reply is to try
to shake them down to find out the 'purity' of their 'motives'
in asking a technical question?
  Of course, you're not a Nazi, are you? "WE just want to ask you
a few questions..." before revealing 'source code', in order to
make certain that no one is going to make 'improper' use of any
remailers, or encryption packages, or graphic images of fully
clothed children, or...

  Becoming a remailer operator is one of the quickest ways I've
found to ferret out 'Big Brother Inside' (TMTCM).
  I regard most remailer operators as everyday heros, but I have
to laugh (or puke) when I see someone painting themselves, or
remailer operators as a whole, as some kind of Hero/Savior/Saint.
This is invariably followed by viewing themselves as part of
some Holy Crusade to 'save' remailer recipients from spam, or
one of the other Horsemen of the Remailer Apocalypse.

  Any technical limitations one imposes on the use of their remailer
that is not due purely to considerations in regard to survival, is
nothing more than using it as an ego-tool to play God/BigBrother.
  Even the process of trying to survive as a remailer operator leads
to one needing to reevaluate their character, beliefs and values.
e.g. - You may be able to survive by allowing Christian spamming,
but not Satanist spamming. Do you allow one, but not the other, in
order to keep from getting shut down?
e.g. - You may be able to survive by allowing anonymous email to
any .gov site except whitehouse.gov. Do you allow one, but not the
other?

  Hey, Jay...I recognize your 'right' to answer technical questions
about remailer use only after having the person asking the question
fill out a 10-page form asking questions such as,
"Are you now, or have you ever been, a member of the Communist Party?"
  I also recognize your right to be laughed at as a lame, Nazi fuck.

TruthMonger#1

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: PGP for Business Security 5.8
Comment: "I Broke PGP!"

iQEVAwUANH7LJj0zUlXoOfx5AQEFWggAiIZbdYSw4N9CCrlHl0nJt9yLnfB/xFb9
RrUEMPocsOdC2rRAMkyRpx8R6bPN0AHHUT0Bum9qc1YCJ63OGuMm6UNh51dBmzXl
i3syr7UBCPg3aYTSAooIRUoFzHsuqvm0Y2Dk2xYRlZ+SKoMzWmG9Kkiaed2ryqbC
tqZJKp6sHD7p+Dt3/IbEahJQqNNXVrOn85pM+xd4T71fPdH1HA0Iptef8kflCg2U
gkXSuPIJHZOLDi5kPurJcd9ho2dr1ZYyh3GOpEkyfDyLUquOtJUQKsfrTSZlwUML
Et7BKHLk6z+hXJpo/HOU7y2tlL5R620O03FmmNaEePjbm0+M5x67Mw==
=JE3f
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----





