From: ulf@fitug.de (Ulf =?iso-8859-1?Q?M=F6ller?=)
Date: Fri, 10 Oct 1997 00:08:47 +0800
To: jya@pipeline.com
Subject: Re: EU Rejects GAK
In-Reply-To: <1.5.4.32.19971009115219.006ac38c@pop.pipeline.com>
Message-ID: <9710091554.AA41750@public.uni-hamburg.de>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



> In a lengthy report released today, the European Commission said the
> American approach could threaten privacy and stifle the growth of
> electronic commerce and that it might simply be ineffective.

Theodor Schlickmann of the Commission's DG13 posted the URL:
http://www.ispo.cec.be/eif/policy/970503toc.html

Executive summary from http://www.ispo.cec.be/eif/policy/970503exec.html
follows:

ENSURING SECURITY AND TRUST IN ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION
       Towards A European Framework for Digital Signatures And Encryption
                               EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

Introduction

Open electronic networks such as the Internet are increasingly being used as a
platform for communication in our society. They have the capacity to create new
businesses, new channels of distribution and new methods of reaching the
customer. They also open up opportunities to re-engineer business conduct
itself. It is now largely expected that electronic commerce will be one of the
key drivers for the development of the global information society. Electronic
Commerce presents the European Union with an excellent opportunity to advance
its economic integration by means of a "virtual" economic area.

However, the realisation of such developments are hampered by the noticed
insecurities typical to open networks: messages can be intercepted and
manipulated, the validity of documents can be denied, personal data can be
illicitly collected. As a result, the attractiveness and advantage of
electronic commerce and communication cannot be fully exploited.

In order to make good use of the commercial opportunities offered by electronic
communication via open networks, a more secure environment needs to be
established. Cryptographic technologies are widely recognised as essential
tools for security and trust on open networks. Two important applications of
cryptography are digital signatures and encryption.

Several Member States announced their intentions to introduce specific
regulation on cryptography and some already have done so. For instance, Germany
and Italy already moved ahead with digital signature laws. In other Member
States internal discussions are taking place, and some tend to refrain, at
least for the moment, from any specific regulation at all.

Divergent and restrictive practices with regard to cryptography can be
detrimental to the free circulation of goods and services within the Internal
Market and hinder the development of electronic commerce. The European Union
simply cannot afford a divided regulatory landscape in a field so vital for the
economy and society.

The main objectives of this Communication are to develop a European policy in
particular with a view to establishing a common framework for digital
signatures, ensuring the functioning of the Internal Market for cryptographic
services and products, stimulating a European industry for cryptographic
services and products and stimulating and enabling users in all economical
sectors to benefit from the opportunities of the global information society. As
far as timing is concerned, the Commission considers that appropriate measures
ought to be in place throughout the Union by the year 2000 at the latest. As a
consequence, the Commission intends to come forward with detailed proposals in
1998 after the assessment of comments on this Communication.

This is in line with the April 1997 adopted Communication on Electronic
Commerce, where the Commission announced the intention to prepare a policy
aiming at guaranteeing the free movement of encryption technologies and
products, as well as to propose a specific initiative on digital signatures





