From: Tim May <tcmay@got.net>
Date: Thu, 5 Jun 1997 10:41:53 +0800
To: cypherpunks@Algebra.COM
Subject: A Fair Trial for the Waco Raiders...is it too much to ask for?
In-Reply-To: <199706042113.RAA15819@muesli.ai.mit.edu>
Message-ID: <v03102805afbbd31d72bc@[207.167.93.63]>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain




(I didn't start this Koresh/Waco thread...I'm just renaming it from
"McVeigh" to something more germane to the points.)

At 6:39 PM -0700 6/4/97, Jeremiah A Blatz wrote:

>The proper thing to do would be to walk up and knock on the door. The
>local sherrif suggested that percise action. However, the unassailable
>feds in their ivory towers couldn't be bothered to ask any local
>officials before the raid.

As is well known, the Sheriff also said that Koresh had been pleasant to
him on a couple of other visits (of the knock on the door type, not the
Nomex-clad ninjas sneaking up on all sides with asault rifles at the
ready). The Sheriff also said Koresh could have been picked up on any of
his trips into Waco, or on any of his morning jogs around the property and
nearby roads.

For this honesty, the Sheriff elected to resign.

Oh, and the reason the Davidians knew about the raiders planning an assault
was because some local reporters were talking about it, and someone who
overheard them called Koresh to warn him that something big was about to
happen.

You see, the media and their cameras had been called in to film this
propaganda event, this public relations shot in the arm for the beleagured
BATF.

Shot in the arm indeed. And in the head, And in the kidney. And shot by
their own side, from all indications once the "commence fire" command was
given.

I don't know whether Koresh started the fire, or the tanks started the
fire, or the tear gas grenades started the fire, or the automatic weapons
fire started the fire. What I know is that a paramilitary assault, complete
with tanks and Blackhawk choppers was launched against a private residence
for the alleged crimes of having too many weapons (in Texas? gimme a break)
and of an allegation of child abuse.

That Koresh was not picked up under the circumstances described above, and
that the media was invited in to help film the recruting film, tells us
that the affair was not about what the BATF and FBI claim it was about.

Why is it so radical to ask that a criminal trial be held for those
responsible, and all participants, and that the appropriate penalties be
meted out if any of those charged are found guilty? Texas is very liberal
with the lethal injections, so what's the big deal about having a trial and
giving the needle to a dozen or so of the BATF leaders?

I imagine that some of those brought to trial might receive lesser
sentences, maybe even no punishment at all if they could convince their
jury they were "just following orders."

I can also imagine some might receive fairly light prison terms, of a few
years or less. (Of course, some of them might then face another fate in
prison.) But the level of criminality and malfeasance show suggest to me
that at least 4 of the Waco raiders and their bosses, maybe 5, would get
the death penalty. Sounds fair to me.

--Tim May

There's something wrong when I'm a felon under an increasing number of laws.
Only one response to the key grabbers is warranted: "Death to Tyrants!"
---------:---------:---------:---------:---------:---------:---------:----
Timothy C. May              | Crypto Anarchy: encryption, digital money,
tcmay@got.net  408-728-0152 | anonymous networks, digital pseudonyms, zero
W.A.S.T.E.: Corralitos, CA  | knowledge, reputations, information markets,
Higher Power: 2^1398269     | black markets, collapse of governments.
"National borders aren't even speed bumps on the information superhighway."








