From: Blanc <blancw@cnw.com>
Date: Mon, 19 May 1997 16:14:10 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: I Treat All My Enemies Equally
Message-ID: <3.0.32.19970519001748.006fa8c4@cnw.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


TruthMonger wrote:

>  Blanc makes some excellent points about the average citizen being
>caught in a ping-pong crossfire in the conflict between government
>and anti-government forces. However, as I said, this is in the nature
>of conflict and the citizen's best option may be to make a daily 
>effort to resist the government oppression, no matter how small it
>may seem in any instance.
.....................................................


Appreciate all the kudos, TruthMongrel. <g>

The problem that I was talking about is that of not being able to
distinguish one's enemies from one's friends because they all act alike and
therefore being in a position of danger from either of them.   In that
case, it doesn't matter which philosophy (political, economic, etc.) one
should support; the immediate fact of the matter is physical - physical
safety from all those Cowboys & Indians trying to get rid of each other
regardless of the reasons or the purpose.

In that case they are not advancing the kind of philosophical cause which
supports superior values and which results in better circumstances.   They
are not "separating the wheat from the shaf", they are not being
descriminating about what should live and what should die, they are not
allowing innocent bystanders to make a decision about which side they're on
or what risks they are willing to take in the "war" which they may not
realize is happening.

In that case, the real end of a "terrorist" action is personal and has
little to do with a preferable way of life for humans, or grievances
against an unjust oppressor.   When two "opposed" groups are willing to
stick it you  without concern, there is no difference between them.
Because, what difference does it make?
    ..
Blanc
    ..
Blanc





