From: TruthMonger <tm@dev.null>
Date: Fri, 31 Oct 1997 17:02:04 +0800
To: Jim Choate <ravage@ssz.com>
Subject: Re: democracy?! (Re: Terrorism is a NON-THREAT (fwd)) (fwd)
In-Reply-To: <199710310315.VAA21770@einstein.ssz.com>
Message-ID: <34599D8F.2856@dev.null>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Jim Choate wrote:

> Juries are supposed to be composed of your peers, not who the prosecution or
> defence believe will best support their case. It should be that the first 12
> poeple called who don't have a valid excuse to be excused are the jury, the
> next 12 are the back-ups.

  You're way off base here, Jim. As a matter of fact, the government
goes to extraordinary lengths to make certain that we get a jury of
our peers.
  For example, potential jurists in murder trials are required to
admit to supporting the government murder of the defendant if he
or she is convicted. God forbid they should ask what procedures
are in place for bringing the defendant back to life if their
verdict turns out to be in error.

  I like many others, have committed a wide variety of crimes for
which I could be sentenced and punished, but the only two I was
charged for and found guilty of were crimes of which I was completely
innocent. Go figure...

> This would guarantee that getting a conviction for
> anything other than the most heinous crime with the most explicit and
> incontrovertible evidence will be well nigh impossible, as it should be in a
> democracy. It should be a mother fucker to put somebody in jail in this
> country.

  'Circumstantial evidence' has been twisted and perverted in the
justice system to the point where it is synonymous with convicting
the 'best guess' candidate for a crime.
  The problem with the '*someone* has to pay' school of jurisprudence
in vogue today is that poorly paid, poorly trained street officers
are often responsible for making the decisions as to *who* will be
the person selected as the 'best guess' candidate. (At which point
the wheels of law enforcement and the injustice system begin rolling
over the back of the defendant, leaving tire marks suspiciously
similar to those at the scene of the crime.)

> Judges should not be able to tell someone they need permissio to file a
> legal complaint. Nor should a judge be able to refuse a juries request to
> have testimony transcribed because it costs too much. That isn't justice,
> that is systemic expediency and criminal indiference.

  You have hit on what I regard as the single greatest evil in the
justice system today--expediency.
  At the heart of 'expediency' lies the 'plea bargain.' Police and
prosecutors are fully aware that their greatest chance of success
in turning a potential 'loss' into a 'win' is with a person, guilty
or innocent, who they can deal with as a first time offender.
  The prosecutor can use dire threats of 'maximum prosecution' to
convince the person to take a 'slap on the wrist' to avoid taking
a chance of suffering devastating consequences. What their victims
don't realize is that they will now be a 'known offender', an 
automatic 'suspect' in the future, and subject to exceedingly more
severe penalties in the future for their real or imagined crimes.

  I know a person who is serving a life sentence as a habitual
offender for a 'third' felony because his legal aide attorney
years ago had gotten him a 'helluva deal' on a DWI, only having
to pay a small fine and no loss of license (back when this 
was still possible). Although the man was a non-drinker, having
a liver condition that meant he would die if he consumed enough
alcohol to be over the legal limit, he had never been 'diagnosed'
as such, having no need to, since it was a known hereditary
condition in his family.
  His legal aide lawyer pointed out the enormous expense of
being diagnosed, etc, and the fact that a DWI was only a
"small, insignificant" felony at the time.

  Many years later, the 'third felony', for which he was sentenced
to life in prison, was for bouncing a $10.00 check, or some such.

  The irony is that he was always a big law and order supporter,
and probably cheered when the 'third time loser' law was passed.
(I wonder if the $10.00 bounced check was to the campaign of his
 favorite 'law and order' politician?)
 
> Paying a government to keep the park clean and mowed and the lights on at
> night or my streets well paved and de-iced in winter is not quite the same
> thing as having black-suited ninja wann-be's kicking my door in at 2AM
> because I choose to smoke a joint or even grow my own weed; or spend six
> weeks in jail for possessing vitamins that some cop THINKS is drugs; or
> perhaps because I happen to be a doctor and know how to read and might take
> exception to being told what I can or can't say; or because I might be of
> Jewish decent or a Muslim or a Catholic or Anglo or Negro; or etc. etc.

  Or you might be Timothy O'Leary, crossing the American border (in
Texas?) with a couple of marihuana seeds in the ashtray. (40 years
in the slam?)

TruthMonger





