From: lwjohnson@grill.sk.ca (Larry Johnson)
Date: Tue, 4 Feb 1997 03:34:01 -0800 (PST)
To: dthorn@gte.net
Subject: Re: Trigger-Words...Trigger-Fingers
In-Reply-To: <199702021555.HAA25437@toad.com>
Message-ID: <32F73B3A.70AE@grill.sk.ca>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Dale Thorn wrote:
> 
> Larry Johnson wrote:
> > Cynthia H. Brown wrote:
> [snippo]
> > Theres not many girls on this list, is there?
> [mo' snippo]
> > Anyway, my uncle prints out the girl-cypherpunks stuff for the girls
> > on my list and they think its real cool and they all want to marry
> > technicians so that they can make them work on the computers for them,
> > kind of like making them do the computer dishes, you know.
> [yet mo' snippo]
> 
> I want to get married.  Lots of times.  Are the girls cute?
> I don't do hardware, tho, I'm a software guy.

Yeah their real cute, most of them anyway. Their all nice though. Some of them
would like you cause they dont like regular guys, cause their troublemakers
too. 
I know your a troublemaker (I think thats a good thing) because Ive read your
stuff and myu uncle keeps you in his NotADork/MyAssholes dir. Thats where he 
keeps the troublemakers but its not an insult because he likes what Kevin
(hes a Bodston Celtic said--"Danny Ange is an asshole, but hes _our_ asshole."
  He taght me how to read by using the Froggie manual since I could boot it
myself when he was out of the rooom when I was two year old. Now he teachs
me how to read with the cypherpunk messages and stuff from his govbernment
friends. (Their good government guys though, they like you guys. Their 
really secret guys not lamer regualar secret guys. They laugh at those 
regular secret guys who screw with you guys cause they leave their pecker
tracks all over the place.)
Some people thik Im a lamer cause Im not good with grammer (not on the kids
lists thogh) bu tmy uncle says Ill learn how to do that but Im better to
learn how tho think first. Ive got dsylexia too so I use a spell checkerif
I want to look smart but emailers dont have it.

You guyhs should keep being troublemakers. Really.
My uncle says that if you guys get too polite then you better watcvh your
backs when you curtsy, cause you never know whos sneaking up behind you.
He told me that if I watch you rmodernation that I wont have to have
sex educaton laterer cause I'll already know how to get f*)&%ed.
(Hes funny. His governmnt friends call him the fool becaise hes dumb like
a fox.)
Excuse my spelling but I spell things good once I see them in a dir cause
myu uncle make s me look stuff up before I put it in a dir or he erases
myu dir to make me learn.

I think the girls would like you cause yuou are a computer guy. Ill show 
them your letter. Theeir smart, too. They dont like lamer guys. When their
school computer guy messes up ecveyones stuff then they fix it but they 
dont tell him cause it makes him mad.
Im not real good at 4reading code and stuff but the secret computer guys 
let me drink Scotch with them evcen in the bar at the Holiday In in Santafe
cause Im smarter than them abou t som e stuff even if they are really good.
(I go tm y uncles password on his secret machine by putting my video camera
on the frige with a dead battery and pluging it into his power supply)
(Now when he boots up he will getr Duke Nukem3D and when he leacves it
he will get a message telling him hes a _lamer_.)
He had to go to Lost Alamo again because of you guys and hell gibve me 
sh*&)( when he gets back but not too much cause he said I could do 
anything I want on his secret machine if I got on it.
Im getting to play with Unix cause he has a Spark Card on it that has Unix
on it. (Dos is for lamers but Bill Gates owns ecerything so its cheaper
for kids)

Some lamer said on cypherpunks today that it takes him an hour to get
the pecker messages off his computer. My uncle has me to do it for him
sometimes and it only take me like maybve two minutes. 
If the guy is such a lmaer that it take s hinm an hour then maybe he
should just read only the pecker messages cause they have pictures and
then when he mobes his lips to read then he coul d put them on the
peckers. (Thats a joke)

I like that Tim May is bacvk, if only even for a little while.  When you
guys fight at least you say stuff that isnt kissing ass for other guys 
money.
Im going to make a message to cypherpunsk that says if anyone wants me
to be their moderator then they should not write any messages to the
cypherpunks. Then the 2000 people who dont post will be voting for me
to be their moderator and I will be their boss.
If Im the moderator then I will givbe everyone free pizz a and lots 
and lots of Scotch. (<--Dewars)

I hope you guys stay together. My uncle says sometimes you learn by 
looking and sometimes you leran by seeing whos looking back. But he
tells the  secret gobvernmetn guys not to look back cause their
might be a cypherpunk gaining on them. (Thats a joke)

Ive got to go to bed so I can pretned to get up again. Im sick so I
can do what I want bu t Im not supposed to stya up all night either.
I wont let the door hit me in the ass on my wayout.

Bye,
Human Gus-Peter
p.s. - dont write me after Thursday cause my dad will be back and Ill
get in trouble. My uncle will help me clean u p my mess cause hes not
a squealer.





