From: nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)
Date: Wed, 2 Jul 1997 06:49:44 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Copyright / Re: Dr. Dobbs Cryptography and Security CD-ROM
Message-ID: <199707012155.XAA06734@basement.replay.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Paul Bradley wrote:
 
> I don`t believe in copyright in general, but I would be perfectly happy
> to pay a US cpunk to send me a copy of this CD-ROM, *BUT*, physically
> mailing a copy like this is more risky for the US Cpunk. I don`t believe
> in ripping people off, and rarely copy copyrighted material, but I don`t
> hold with copyright laws and see nothing wrong with this being posted.

 Copyright is for the purpose of people with ideas being financially
rewarded in the same manner as those who manifest those ideas in
the physical sphere (via print, recordings, machines, etc).
 As a recording musician I expected to get money for my recordings,
just as everyone else in the chain of business did in making my
music available to the end-user. (And just as a grocer who makes
food available to his customers expects you to leave something in
the till on your way out of the store.)
 I have never had any problem with someone recording a copy of my
music from a purchased copy if they are a music lover with a thin
pocket, or can't readily purchase it. If someone with a $2000.00
stereo wants to enjoy the fruits of my labor without contributing
any money to my health and welfare, then I consider them to be just
another thief.

  The bottom line with the Crypto CD-ROM is that we should each
make an effort to support it at the level we are capable of,
in the interest of promoting strong cryto.
  Buy it, if at all possible. If you download a copy on the net
and can't afford $99.00, then send them $10.00, or $20.00, etc.
If you can't afford to send them a nickle, then do what you can
to promote their product. Provide pointers to their business,
tell people about their products, etc.
  People who will give ten or twenty dollars to a charity when
someone shows up at their door might use "shareware" for years
without taking the time and trouble to send the creator some
cash. Bottom line--take the time to recompense the vendor/creator
at the level you are able. 

  Technology may well enable us to take the product and give
nothing in return to those who made it available, but doing so
will not further our own beliefs and aims to any extent.
  If you just want to rip something off, go to the Whithouse,
rip off some silverware, and send it to Dr. Dobbs.

TruthMonger





