From: ichudov@Algebra.COM (Igor Chudov @ home)
Date: Mon, 15 Dec 1997 14:15:01 +0800
To: cypherpunks@www.video-collage.com
Subject: Plot to Overthrow U.S.Government: three indicted
Message-ID: <199712150607.AAA07189@manifold.algebra.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text



Wow, this is a colorful story. As usual, I am not sure how
much of it is true. igor

          Three Indicted in Alleged Plot to Overthrow U.S.  Government

          AP 13-DEC-97

          LITTLE ROCK, Ark. (AP) Three men charged with planning a revolt
          against the United States government wanted to create a new
          republic limited to whites while allowing polygamy to build
          its population, prosecutors say.

          Chevie Kehoe of Colville, Wash., and Daniel Lewis Lee of
          Oklahoma City were charged Friday with murder, racketeering
          and conspiracy in a seven-count federal indictment. Kehoe,
          24, directed the group, and Lee, 24, carried out the orders,
          the indictment said.

          Faron Lovelace, 40, of Sandpoint, Idaho, was charged with
          a single count of racketeering for allegedly being Kehoe's
          assistant.

          Prosecutors say Kehoe and the others wanted to create the
          Aryan Peoples Republic through a campaign of murder, robberies
          and kidnappings.

          Once the U.S. government was gone, their new country would grow
          quickly "by recruiting certain white people into the Republic
          and by engaging in polygamy so that the number of these white
          persons would greatly increase," the indictment said.

          The indictment did not detail threats or name targeted
          officials.

          Kehoe and Lee were previously charged in state court with
          the 1996 deaths of William Mueller, 52; his wife, Nancy, 28;
          and Mrs. Mueller's daughter, Sarah Elizabeth Powell, 8.

          Kehoe and Lee allegedly robbed Mueller, a gun dealer in Tilly,
          Ark., to support their cause, and the circumstances surrounding
          the deaths gave the Arkansas grand jury jurisdiction.

          Prosecutors said state murder charges would be dropped to
          allow the federal case to advance.

          Authorities say the Muellers and Kehoes knew each other and
          were associated through gun shows and militia group activities.

          Kehoe is accused of directing crimes that also include
          theft, interstate transportation of stolen property and money
          laundering. Part of Lee's job was to carry out four murders,
          and Lovelace's duties included one murder, according to the
          indictment.

          Kehoe and Lovelace are accused of transporting stolen goods
          from the white separatist community of Elohim City, Okla.,
          to Spokane, Wash., in March 1995 and again from Arkansas to
          Washington after the Muellers were killed.

          Lovelace was convicted this year of killing Jeremy Scott, 23, in
          1995 out of fear Scott was a government informant. Lovelace also
          has admitted kidnapping and robbing a Washington state couple
          in 1995. He held them captive for five hours after stealing
          their weapons and extorting several thousand dollars from them.

          Kehoe and his brother, Cheyne Kehoe, 21, made national headlines
          in February when they were allegedly involved in a shootout with
          Ohio police. It was caught on videotape by a camera mounted
          on a police car.  No officers were wounded but a passerby was
          injured by a bullet fragment.

          Kehoe and his brother were fugitives until June, when
          Cheyne surrendered and told authorities where to find his
          brother. Cheyne was not named in Friday's indictment.

          Kehoe was being held in Ohio awaiting charges stemming from
          the videotaped shootout. Lee was jailed in Arkansas on capital
          murder charges, and Lovelace was being held in Idaho.

            Copyright 1997 & The Associated Press. All rights
            reserved. This material may not be
                     published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
`





