From: autosavr@albany.net
Date: Mon, 14 Jul 1997 09:20:52 -0700 (PDT)
To: autosavr@albany.net
Subject: Subj:  Kiwanis Club Update (7/97)
Message-ID: <199707141620.JAA01216@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


E-Mail News Service (E.N.S.) of Clifton Park, NY USA

Top Story: Clubs Are Making Big Bucks With
The Kiwanis Car Care Fund-Raising Program!

--- Kiwanis clubs all over the country are signing up to participate
 in one of the most profitable fund-raising programs around!  
The Kiwanis Car Care Fund-Raiser is a fully licensed Kiwanis 
fund-raiser, and produces unbelievable profits for clubs of all sizes.
    The Kiwanis Car Care Fund-Raiser is able to reach over 
231,000,000 car owners, all of which want to keep their cars
 looking new.  Your club can get started right away by calling 
1-800-724-8155, or by looking up
 http://www.albany.net/~autosavr/kiwanis on the World Wide Web.

Related News: Kiwanis Car Care Manufacturer Has Over 9 
Successful Years In The Automotive Appearance Business!

--- The manufacturer of the Kiwanis Car Care Fund-Raiser is 
AutoSaver Systems, located in Clifton Park, NY.  They have 
been in business for over 9 years, providing high quality automotive
 appearance products to car care professionals world wide.
    "We started our company a while back, and turned it into a 
success.  We're confident that we can provide the same level of 
high quality products for Kiwanis, and help them become successful 
at fund-raising.  Any Kiwanis club, in any area of the country can raise 
money for their community with the Kiwanis Car Care Fund-Raising 
Program..."  - Warren Camp, President of AutoSaver Systems
    AutoSaver Systems provides factory direct convienence and 
pricing (no middlemen).  The Kiwanis Car Care Fund-Raiser is 
competitively priced with similar store bought products, and literally has
 "Kiwanis" written all over it!  For full details, check out their web site at
http://www.albany.net/~autosavr/kiwanis or by calling 1-800-724-8155.

    If you have received this message in error, and are not affiliated with 
Kiwanis, send mail to autosavr@albany.net and type "REMOVE" in the 
subject heading.  This will remove you from the E.N.S. news list.

E.N.S. of Clifton Park, NY USA
July Edition 1997
                  Kiwanis Members Only




