From: Darren Reed <darrenr@cyber.com.au>
Date: Thu, 20 Feb 1997 19:11:05 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Correct paranoia about evesdropping.
Message-ID: <199702210311.TAA28161@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



I don't read cypherpunks any more, and this may have already been
mentioned but it can't hurt to be pushed again.

Whilst not directly related to cryptography, if any of you saw the
chapters from "Secret Power" posted to best-of-security, know that
that particular book is well worth reading.  Of interest to those
who are concerned for privacy from snooping:

* NSA/DSD/CSE/etc (same type of organisation in different countries)
  use ground stations around the globe to intercept satellite to ground
  transmissions, have a network of computers built up to scan all telexes,
  faxes and even some internet traffic for known keywords in real time;

* there exist computers which can process speech in real time and scan
  for known text/words;

* embassies are popular "listening posts", as are buildings "along route"
  of microwave transmissions;

No mention is made about what their capacity is to decrypt data, but
encrypted data is analysed (e.g. high level Russian stuff).

The book has been extensively researched, with an appendix of all the
sources where relevant (i.e. newspapers articles, etc).  Photographs
of many overseas "bases" are included (e.g. Yakima in Japan).  Heck,
I live less than 1km from one of the sites photographed!

It's not an attractive book, but informative and good reading.

A quote from the book, talking about agent activities and involvement
in surveilence operations: "There is no evidence of a UKUSA code of ethics
or of a tradition of respect for Parliament or civil liberties in their home
countries.  The opposite seems to be true: that anything goes as long as you
do not get caught. Secrey not only permits but encourages questionable
operations."  The extent of the secrecy around the subject matter in the
book is best represented by the comments of a former New Zealand
Primeminister' foreword which admits that he was unaware of many details
in the book but not which ones.  I imagine it would be likewise enlighening
to many recent politicians of high station...

So, in summary, paranoia about being listened to is well formed, especially
if you're involved in overseas communications.  Just assume it is being
"tapped" if it is in clear text and you'll save yourself a lot of worrying
about the "might-be" factor.

"Secret Power"
ISBN 0-908802-35-8
Craig Potton Publishing,
Box 555, Nelson
New Zealand.
First publishing 1996, reprinted 1996.
Approximate cost AUS$35 (inc. freight)





