From: Declan McCullagh <declan@well.com>
Date: Thu, 13 Nov 1997 08:27:09 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: In Burma, the Internet is access to democracy, from Newsday
Message-ID: <v03007814b08ff49c52c5@[168.161.105.216]>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



A very nice piece in Newsday. My writeup of my visit to Burma a year ago is at:

  http://cgi.pathfinder.com/netly/editorial/0,1012,475,00.html

Because of roadblocks, I had to hike across fields and through villages to
get to the site of the sole Burmese Net-connection at a local university.
It was set to become operational in spring 1997. I also heard of
unconfirmed reports that the military had a Net-connection through a
friendly nearby country, probably Singapore. (Perhaps to monitor
soc.culture.burma or somesuch.) BTW, the best mailing list on Burma news
I've found is burmanews-l@igc.apc.org.

I also hid my interview notes in the bottom of my bag. I made an extra copy
of the crucial ones and put the paper in my wallet, just in case.

-Declan

*************

Newsday (New York, NY)
November 12, 1997
LIFE IN CYBERSPACE / FOR MANY, THE INTERNET IS ACCESS TO DEMOCRACY

By Matthew McAllester

    RANGOON, Burma THE MAN LEANED across the table and spoke so quietly
that no one but the two of us could hear. His eyes moved from side to side,
scanning the restaurant and the street outside for possible informers or
military
intelligence agents. That's the way people communicate in Burma when
they're talking with a foreigner about something that could land them in
prison for several years.

   "You know what?" the man said. "I got e-mail."

   "You can't have," I said.

   For several reasons I knew he had to be telling me a tall story. For a
start, it's illegal to access the Internet in Burma. It's illegal to own an
unlicensed fax machine or modem. A few years ago a supporter of the largest
pro-democracy party in Burma died in prison, where he'd been sent because
he did not have a license for his fax machine.

   Besides, no one has e-mail or Internet access in Burma except for a
select few business owners who are friendly with the military regime that
rules the country. Diplomats at a few foreign embassies also acknowledge
that they have Net access and e-mail despite the Burmese government's
restrictions. Even then, they say their e-mail is intercepted and read by
the Burmese authorities.

   This is a country where reporters have to visit in the guise of
tourists, which is how I traveled in September and October. In Burma, all
international calls are listened to by the operator and, the Burmese people
assume, by military intelligence. When I wanted to make a call to the
United States, the receptionist at my hotel told me it would cost $35 for
five minutes if I wanted to dial direct. I opted for the storefront down
the road, where I sat for 30 minutes waiting for a connection. When I got
through to my friend, I was less than chatty about what I'd been up to.

   So how could the man I was talking to across the table possibly have
navigated these political and technological barriers to get e-mail?

   "No, I do. I got it," he said.

   The man smiled. He's a fixer. A small business owner. People come to him
for help. He's thinking of offering people access to his Net account - for
a price. Most of all, he looks out for himself, keeping on the right side
of the military authorities but not showing them the fear they are so used
to seeing in the faces of Burmese people.

   "I dial out anywhere I can," he said. "My account is in Australia, but
I'll use a server from anywhere. Anywhere."

   For the sake of communicating with the outside world, the man was
prepared to risk prison.

   I've written before about how a good number of governments around the
world restrict or ban Internet access to their citizens. Free-speech
advocates told me how some governments fear the spread of anti-government
information and opinions that dissent from the official line. The advocates
told me how democratizing the Internet is by its nature. But being told and
seeing with one's own eyes is a very different experience. After a couple
of weeks viewing how the military government's system of informers and
control of information contributed to its firm grip on power, I could
understand why it has banned the Net. The Net's speed and resistance to
control would be an unstoppable force in organizing opposition to the
military regime.

   "What would happen if you had Net access?" I asked another Burmese man,
who spoke in a whisper even when he was alone at home.

   "The government, it would be over," he said. "We could share information."

   Information and open communication in an oppressive state like Burma are
invaluable tools in fighting the status quo.

   I spent some time one evening in Rangoon with U Tin Oo, a former general
in the Burmese army and now a senior leader of the National League for
Democracy, the largest pro-democracy party. All told, he's spent nine years
in prison for his political activities.

   As we spoke, the phone often rang. Delegates to the party conference
that weekend were en route to Rangoon, and they called Tin Oo to discuss
the event. The conversations were superficial.

   "They tap my phone always," Tin Oo explained.

   When I left I had to take two taxis and walk among crowds in downtown
Rangoon to shake the military intelligence officials that a pro-democracy
contact had said would follow me.

   I worried about my own information, my notes. I longed to be able to
turn them into ones and zeroes and e-mail them home. Instead, I hid them at
the bottom of my backpack.

   A couple of weeks later I was in Thailand, interviewing Burmese
dissidents and refugees who have fled the Burmese government. Working with
them in the north of Thailand are several westerners who work as
human-rights campaigners, doctors and advocates for the refugees.

   E-mail is an important tool in their work, as it helps them coordinate
with people outside Thailand. One woman collects every story she can find
about Burma into the BurmaNet News e-mail newsletter. BurmaNet News is
delivered to the e-mail boxes of hundreds of journalists, activists and
government officials around the world. It's precisely the kind of
democratizing spread of information that the Burmese people are denied.

   But even in Thailand there are problems. The human-rights advocates and
health workers use encryption when communicating online. "They read all our
e-mail," said an Australian doctor, referring to the Thai authorities. The
Thai government maintains diplomatic relations with the Burmese government,
a pariah regime to many other democracies. "The other day I tried to get my
e-mail and my password had been changed."







