From: John Young <jya@pipeline.com>
Date: Sun, 5 Oct 1997 11:30:27 -0700 (PDT)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Stronghold
Message-ID: <1.5.4.32.19971005182201.00866268@pop.pipeline.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Dimitri007 wrote:

>It is becoming increasingly obvious that John Young is the real
>troublemaker here. I wouldn't doubt that it was John who was
>behind the original troubles between Vulis and Sameer.
>I think that John Young should be forcefully unsubscribed from
>the Cypherpunks mailing lists. 

Heh, do me! Forcefully unsubscribed means *plonk* -- not seen 
much lately but once frequently wanked here.

Troublemaking is the very essence of this cypherjerk joint, no?

Does anyone but me remember that the whole Vulis, moderation,
censorship, Stronghold shit started with Tim dissing Dimitri by mocking 
the [spit] locution (or that's when I first paid attention to the thread --
Tim's
and Dimitri's rude humor slurs are their best shots). 

Dimitri then getting pissed at the dis (or faking it), then counter-assaulting 
Tim with multiple personalities, then both master peronnae-fakers going at 
each other through clones, acolytes and yes-bossers to capture 
the other's reputation capital, both operatically yodelling innocence 
unfairly ravaged, both raging with highest of principles at the accusations 
of come-fuck-me-darling lowest-level behavior.

Anonymic and pseudonymic chaff flooded in and jammed the putative
brilliant list signal. Seeing an opening for righteous evangelism, other 
high-minder fakirs intervened to protect the list's pristine virtue with 
prophylatic measures, which leaked, were malfitting, or were rejected 
by all-natural studs and mares lusting for unmediated self-abuse.

Whores spitting at whores, male and female and crossovers it was, and is.
Recall these periodic pitbull fights instigated with Tim by those foolish 
to challenge him, those who think there are limits to all-natural sex.

Great liars, the Net's multiple personna double-cross-addressers .

Whose willing to bet that Tim and Dimitri, their adherents, are not in bed 
with, may even be the same as, the Totos, the Mongershitters, the who?

None of this compares to meisterwerk slurring which heavenly rents 
this forum.





