From: bureau42 Anonymous Remailer <nobody@bureau42.ml.org>
Date: Sat, 15 Nov 1997 15:27:00 +0800
To: cypherpunks@Algebra.COM
Subject: No Subject
Message-ID: <WTpiWQFqaSehTjY5K+b63g==@bureau42.ml.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Mark Koernke "Mark of Michigan" Arrested Today

by WebToday Staff Writers


November 14, 1997


Mark Koernke (aka "Mark of Michigan") was arrested on Friday, November 
14, 1997. 

A warrant for his arrest was issued on November 7 in Washteneau County 
for aggravated assault for allegedly beating up process server Roger 
Gainer while being served with a summons by the defense lawyers of John 
Stevenson. Stevenson had plead guilty of being an accessory after the 
fact in the murder last year of William "Bill" Gleason in Hillsdale, 
Michigan. 

More charges are expected to be filed against Korernke and other 
individuals in the ongoing investigation of the Gleason murder which is 
often referred to as "the Hillsdale murder."

Richard Champion (aka Carl Miller) was arrested two weeks ago for 
failure to respond to a subpoena but has since bonded out of jail. Bond 
was set at $22,000.

Bill Gleason was reportedly one of Mark Koernke's bodyguards. Both were 
members of the U. S. Militia. Neither Koernke nor Gleason were ever 
members of the Michigan Militia Corps Wolverines (MMCW). The MMCW, 
headquartered in Muskegon, Michigan and is led by Commander Lynn Jon Van 
Huizen. It is believed to be the largest militia group in Michigan and 
perhaps the largest in the U. S. 

Koernke is a resident of Dexter, Michigan and works for the University 
of Michigan in Ann Arbor. He is known for his "American in Peril" video 
and is a shortwave radio commentator.
--------------------------------------------------------------------


This is confirmed as I spoke with John Statdmiller personally 10 minutes ago.

Mark Koernke was arrested a few hours ago. Charges are felony firearms
possession.Local County prosecuter bringing the charges is Donald Ray of the
14th District. His office number is 313 971 0078
Mark is scheduled for arraignment at 2PM Eastern Time









