From: TruthMonger <tm@dev.null>
Date: Mon, 6 Oct 1997 14:49:41 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Moderation Revisionism (Try to forget!)
Message-ID: <3438874B.18F1@dev.null>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Those who are so quick to act as apologists for the C2Nut blitzkreig
on the anarchistic freedom of the CypherPunks list forget that by the
end of the 'moderation experiment,' the mailing list had lost an
estimated 6 million Jewish subscribers.
It is likely that we would have lost even more, had it not been for the
valiant efforts of Dimitri Vulis to warn us about murdering Armenian
bastards in our midst.

When the Johnboot of Fascism descended on the CypherPunks mailing list,
the evil Dr. Sandfort was given free reign to do bizarre experiments
with twin mailing lists, severing parts of toad.com's electronic brain
into seperate sections, and producing a mutant clone which was passed
off as the original entity.
Unfortunately, the Electronic DNA of the mutant strain of the list was
not stable, and began to disintegrate, resulting in a denigration of
the mutant list body to the point where parts of its electronic body
began to become corrupted, even falling completely off, at times.

After the nuking of toad.com and Nagasaki, the list CypherSpace was
divided up among the winners, with the Eastern Block under control
of Comrade Chewd-Off, the Western Block was apparently liberated under
the flag of InfoNex (although their ties to the C2Nut secret government
remain in place), and Texas, as always, remained a seperate CypherPunk
nation just south of Intel, with Commander in Chief Choate launching a
bandwidth race to keep ahead of the Eastern Block.

Currently there are calls for crypto disarmament coming from the 
peace-loving folks in DC, in the interests of making the world a
safer place, but they are meeting resistance from crypto-guerillas
who refuse to recognize that the war is over and it is time for
us to ask, "Why can't we all just get along (a long toilet plunger
and shove it up somebody's ass)."
DigiCash remained neutral during the moderation experiment and denies
that they are in possession of large sums of eca$h left with them for
safekeeping by the missing Jewish members of the mailing list.

There have been rumors that many of the leaders of the attack on the
CypherPunks list escaped to Anguilla, a small island in the Caribbean,
where they plotted an even greater conspiracy to take over all of
cryptography by seizing control of the financial cryptography arena,
but Herr Hettinga claims that it was simply a meeting of the Bavarian
Illuminati. He denies any claim that there were closed meetings in
which a secret alliance was formed with the Japanese, but recent
activity by Jochi Ito has led many to suspect that this is indeed the
case.

In my private meetings with the remaining members of the CypherPunks
mailing lists, each of them confirmed that they are members of one
three-letter organization or another, although most of them continue
to deny it in public. Kent Crispin and Phillip Hallam-Baker asked me
to please not blow their 'covers,' so I will not comment on them
directly.

I hope that this clears things up for everybody. Now just try to forget
all about it.

RevisionMonger





