From: nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)
Date: Thu, 6 Nov 1997 18:58:23 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Tim May Guilty in OKC Bombing!
Message-ID: <199711061041.LAA15555@basement.replay.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



~
Prosecution tries to link May, McVeigh through literature

BIENFAIT (CANADIAN NUTLY NEWS) -- 
Drunks testifying Wednesday in the Oklahoma City bombing trial 
said they found anti-government literature in the home of 
defendant Tim C. May that was similar to that found in the car 
of Timothy McVeigh.
A shitfaced Lying Fuck Louis J. Freeh said, "Pro-constitution,
anti-government, it's all the same crap."
...
One document referred to the government raid on the Branch
Davidian compound near Waco, Texas, and contained the Thomas
Jefferson quote: "The tree of liberty must be refreshed from 
time to time with the blood of patriots and tyrants." 
FBI agents snorting cocaine in the bathroom were heard to say
that they were looking into the possibility that John Doe #3
might, in fact, be Thomas Jefferson.
...
The government has argued that McVeigh and May were
incensed over how federal agents handled the 1993
clash with the Branch Davidian cult in Waco in which 80 cult
members died.	
Lying Nazi Cunt Janet Reno testified that, to her knowledge, 
May and McVeigh were the only two people in the US who were 
angered by the FBI murder of men, women and children.
...
One document seized in Timothy C. May's house was
a copy of a March 15, 1993, letter published in The Wall Street
Journal that referred to Waco and "equates federal agents with
Nazi SS agents exterminating Jews in World War II." 
When prosecutors entered this as evidence, May broke down on
his bar stool and confessed.
"When they introduced the evidence that I read The Wall Street
Journal," May told Canadian Nutly News reportwhores, "I knew it
was only a matter of time until they linked me to Jim Bell, who
has been learning how to read from prison copies of the newpaper."
...
Rumors that May ratted out other readers of The Wall Street Journal
in return for a double-shot of Tequila could not be confirmed.
All political figures queried by Nutly News reportwhores denied
reading the terrorist rag, including its publishers.
The editor of The Wall Street Journal vehemently denied rumors 
that May had secretly named him as an avid reader of his own paper,
claiming, "Hell, I can't even read." He also added that Tim May
and Jim Bell were known to be Janet Reno's secret lovers, though
admitting that they did not fuck her with their own dicks.

Tomorrow: FBI investigating reports that a majority of Cypherpunks
  mailing list subscribers used letters of the English alphabet
  that were 'similar' to those used by May and Bell.





