From: Toto <toto@sk.sympatico.ca>
Date: Tue, 18 Feb 1997 06:57:00 -0800 (PST)
To: drose@azstarnet.com
Subject: Drose / You're a fucking idiot!
In-Reply-To: <199702180439.VAA24310@web.azstarnet.com>
Message-ID: <3309D570.4148@sk.sympatico.ca>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


drose@azstarnet.com wrote:
> To Toto, Dimi, D.Thorn, whomever, etc.: while I may appreciate being
> subscribed to a million and one lists that I never knew I needed (and so
> quick!--appreciate the service, dude)  this address, like c-punks@toad.com,
> is going away *real * quick, so save your keystrokes.

  I generally try to be fairly civil in my postings, and refrain from
personal insults, but I will make an exception, here.
  So listen up, shit-for-brains, and I will try to explain a few concepts
that you seem to be too dim-witted to understand.

  I am a CypherPunk.
  I have a <Delete> key, and I know how to use it.
  When my personal account is subjected to spam-attacks and unwanted
subscriptions to a multitude of lists, I deal with it. I don't make
baseless accusations against others based on their perceived public
reputation, or my own subjective perception of their reputation
capital.

  I am not just a CypherPunk, I am also an adult.
  I take responsibility for my own actions, and I keep those actions
within the bounds of what I perceive to be acceptable ethics and
personal integrity.
  If you think that I am responsible for this-or-that action in regard
to yourself, then all you have to do is ask me, and I will tell you. I
don't make any bones about my beliefs and views, and I don't have any
problem with others opposing my beliefs and views.
  When I launch an attack on someone, right or wrong, it is a frontal
assault, not a hidden one. When I post anonymously to the list, or
send anonymous email, I do not use remailers, in order that anyone
with the will and wit to do so may easily discern my pseudonyms through
the headers and use of the 'trace' command.

  If you think that I am the source of your problems, then you are a
fucking idiot.
  I have no idea who you are, and can only vaguely recall the content
or context of your past posts to the list. As such, I would certainly
have little motivation for lifting even my little pinkie against you
in a conspiratorial attack on you.
  I would suggest that the only 'fixations' involved between you and
myself are coming from your end of the electromagnetic spectrum. I would
also suggest that you get your head out of your electromagnetic rectum.

Toto






