From: ron@ebonyworld.com
Date: Sat, 2 Aug 1997 16:24:16 -0700 (PDT)
To: ron@ebonyworld.com
Subject: Hot Nude Male & Female Pics!!
Message-ID: <199708022252.SAA10907@56-1.clever.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Ladies and Gentlemen,

This e-mail is an announcement for a totally new website. The site contains extremely high quality color pictures of nude black muscular men and fine black women. The pictures are not pornographic in nature (Playboy & Playgirl Quality)....but are definitely worth checking out none-the-less!!! If you should find this email to be offensive or if young children are accessing it just reply to us with "remove" in the subject box. We will make sure that you are not contacted again. However, we are sure that you will find this site to be thoroughly enjoyable. http://www.ebonyworld.com

If you would like to evaluate HUNDREDS of super high quality nude color photos of beautiful fine black women and/or gorgeous muscular well endowed brothas then go to visit http://www.ebonyworld.com. You could even win a trip for two to Jamaica just for registering!!

Be sure to check out our newest Hot Black Strip Club, Best of Players Magazine and Black Inches Magazine Areas. These areas feature top erotic models such as Heather Hunter, Janet Jacme, Charmaine Sinclaine, Dominique Simone, Stiff Omar & Big Rolando!!!

BONUS (Can't Say We Don't Give Back!!): Each week we raffle off $50 to 10 lucky current members. At the end of each month we raffle off $100 to 5 lucky current members. At the end of each 6 month period we raffle off 3 free 200MHz Gateway 2000 Pentium Pro Multimedia Computers. And at the end of each year we give away 2 free trips to Jamaica to two lucky members and their guest. All you have to do is join Ebony World Online...THAT'S IT...You're entered into the sweepstakes automatically!!! (When you join...be sure to give us your name and e-mail address so that you will be entered into our drawings) GOOD LUCK!! (Odds of winning are 1 in 26)

Must be 18 years old to go to http://www.ebonyworld.com




