From: Tim May <tcmay@got.net>
Date: Fri, 23 May 1997 01:48:48 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Justice for the Murderers of Donald Scott
In-Reply-To: <199705221512.IAA01747@sirius.infonex.com>
Message-ID: <v03007805afaa3c4cdcb8@[207.167.93.63]>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


At 8:12 AM -0800 5/22/97, WinSock Remailer wrote:

>The interesting thing is that the envirocrats wanted the land, and the
>sheriff (who is, BTW, not in jail) got an appraisal on it BEFORE the
>raid. This case, and not Ruby Ridge, Waco, or The Reichsta...um..
>OK City, radicalized me. This man (Donald Scott) did NOTHING to
>deserve his murder, and the crooks who killed him deserve death.

Indeed. If found guilty of murder, the penalty is death. The official
courts appear completely unwilling to prosecute cops for real crimes like
this (notice that they tried the Rodney King "assailants" a _second_ time
because they didn't like the verdict the first jury rendered...so much for
"double jeapardy" in any reasonable sense). The murderers of Donald Scott
have not even been charged, a few years after the incident, while a
crackhead like Rodney King gets a multimillion dollar settlement...I guess
the key is that the white neighbors of Donald Scott did not go on a looting
and burning rampage in Malibu.

Being that I'm a reasonable man, I would be willing to settle for an
outcome in which the dozen ninja raiders each received a 2nd degree murder
conviction...manslaughter, depraved indifference, the usual buzzwords. They
were, after all, "just good Germans." A nice long prison term for each of
them. However, the Sheriff and any other co-conspirators who ordered the
raid, apparently with visions of getting a cut of the bounty on the
property, would be the one(s) to send to the gallows (or gas chamber, being
that this is enlightened Kalifornia).

>Yes, and buy components. These will be outlawed before they go for
>guns as such, in the hope that wear and tear will do their grab for them.
>

As a footnote to this, an indoor range/store I use (not necessarily the one
in Watsonville, in case anyone in Authority is reading this and plans to
hassle my friends there) let me know on my last buying spree there that
investigators for the BATF and/or other agencies were nosing around their
store and asking to see lists of those who had been buying "paramilitary"
supplies. The guy who told me this said his store refused to cooperate.

Take this as a warning that the Government is extra-legally compiling
dossiers and data bases on those making perfectly legal purchases for which
no permission or identification is required. (Neither ammunition nor
components--except perhaps black powder--require any form of identification
or notification to the government.)

The BATF is apparently compiling lists just like the Red Squads did (and
still do).

The balloon is about to go up.

--Tim May



There's something wrong when I'm a felon under an increasing number of laws.
Only one response to the key grabbers is warranted: "Death to Tyrants!"
---------:---------:---------:---------:---------:---------:---------:----
Timothy C. May              | Crypto Anarchy: encryption, digital money,
tcmay@got.net  408-728-0152 | anonymous networks, digital pseudonyms, zero
W.A.S.T.E.: Corralitos, CA  | knowledge, reputations, information markets,
Higher Power: 2^1398269     | black markets, collapse of governments.
"National borders aren't even speed bumps on the information superhighway."








