From: srvce@micro-net.com
Date: Sun, 2 Nov 1997 10:58:04 -0800 (PST)
To: srvce@micro-net.com
Subject: Hello, thought you should see this
Message-ID: <199711021857.NAA10961@candy.micro-net.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



LEARN THE SECRET TO MAKING OVER $2750.00 A
WEEK, PART-TIME WITH YOUR HOME COMPUTER!

It's fun, it's rewarding, and it's easy.  This is so simple, most
children could do it!  All you need is a computer and E-Mail
address to begin making excellent money while relaxing in 
the comfort of your own home.  

All it takes is a couple hours a day, and you'll have more than 
$2750.00 arriving in your mailbox every week!  Right now there 
are only a few people around the country who know how to do 
this.  And these few people are having the greatest time of their 
lives while their computers make them a fortune.  They don't 
want anyone else to know how they're making all this money,
but we at Crown Industries have decided to let a few more
people in on the secret.  

Even if you are happy with your current job, you can use this 
system in your spare time to create a huge extra income.  And 
let us assure you this system is completely legal.  We are so 
sure anyone can make a fortune with this unique system, that 
we will even let you try it out for 30 days!  If you're not 100% 
satisfied, just send it back within 30 days for a full refund.  

Once you begin to see how easy it is to make money with your
computer, you will wish you had received this letter a long time 
ago.  Anyone can do this, and since very little of your time is 
required, you will have a lot more time to spend doing the things 
you have always wanted to do.

So take the first step toward financial freedom and order this 
powerful money making system today!  You'll be glad you did!

This offer will only be available for a limited time!  To insure 
you receive your copy, order today!

To receive your copy of our incredible computer money making 
system, along with a full 30 day money back guarantee, send 
a check or money order for $14.95 payable to:

Crown Industries
1630 North Main St. Suite# 310
Walnut Creek,  CA  94596

Allow 4-6 days for delivery

P.S.  You simply must see this to believe it.  Never in the 
history of America has it been possible to make this much 
money spending just a couple hours a day.  We guarantee 
that anyone can make more than $2750.00 a week, part-
time using our system and just one home computer or 
you get your money back!  












