From: Steve <privsoft@ix.netcom.com>
Date: Thu, 20 Feb 1997 15:49:51 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks list <cypherpunks@toad.com>
Subject: The List
Message-ID: <330CE329.37E8@ix.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Hey all,

As a somewhat quiet observer and student of the Cypherpunk list over the
last two years, I have been able to keep in touch with an unimaginable
amount of issues, info, concerns, and news; and the knowledge I have
gained from this list is more than I can say in words. I have sifted
through the noise and can say the info gleaned was indeed worth the
effort. I am sorry to see the list in its present state, ready to move
on to better? things. I hope I speak for many of you, like me who
listened learned asked and was answered, that the Cypherpunk list must
continue and that each of us, active and passive member has a
responsibility to ourselves and each other to continue bring the issues
to light , fighting the good fight against the gov't's lousy
regulations, and bringing encryption to the masses. I have been working
with a security software development company for 2 and half years and
have been working on this goal: bringing encryption to the masses. The
information both directly (actual posts relating to Crypto) and
indirectly (Rants and flames on Snakeoil products) gained has helped
guide me and my colleagues closer and closer to our goal. For that and
more I thank all of you. We are very close to releasing a beta version
of our product to the Internet community to use and abuse. We have
worked closely with Bruce Schnieir and Counterpane to insure good
implementation of our security measures. I hope our product meets with
your standards and approval but more importantly I hope that you (the
collective you) can be instrumental in helping us to accomplish our
goal. I will post to this list (assuming it is still amongst the living)
very shortly a more detailed description of the product and where a beta
can be gotten. I am sorry for "whetting the appetites" but I figured
since I was E-mailing a post relating to the state of list, I include a
bit about how the list has positively effected me and has contributed to
society.

Steveo (privsoft@ix.netcom.com)
--Privacy Software Division--
Syntel Technologies, Inc.




