From: Tim May <tcmay@got.net>
Date: Wed, 12 Nov 1997 04:00:57 +0800
To: cypherpunks@Algebra.COM
Subject: Re: 1st Ammendment Tossed in Paladin Case
In-Reply-To: <1.5.4.32.19971111182816.006cf7f4@pop.pipeline.com>
Message-ID: <v0310280ab08e54b6d633@[207.167.93.63]>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



At 11:28 AM -0700 11/11/97, John Young wrote:
>Tim May wrote:
>
>>But in many ways, this is good news. The war is coming faster than I thought.
>
>WSJ reports today on the increasing conservatism of the military and
>disputes about the pretense of civilian control, with some officers calling
>for responsible action to compensate for societal breakdown.

Most of ex-military people I know have no desire to intervene in "societal
breakdown" of the sort the media and politicians seeking reelection like to
talk about (e.g., Dan Quayle's comments about "Murphy Brown" some years
back).

(I happen to agree with the sentiments Quayle expressed, that glorifying
single motherhood is a dangerous message to send, one that's been
successfully sent for decades. The vast majority of unmarried women cannot
plausibly raise children and continue to earn a living to pay for their
choices. Maybe "Murphy Brown" can, maybe Madonna can, but Latoya Q. Brown
in the inner city surely cannot. So, the unwed mothers get AFDC, WIC, food
stamps, welfare, etc. I say let the vermin and their litters starve.)

Where the ex-military I know want to intervene is in defending their
regions and towns against outside interference, rioters, black helicopters,
etc.

A friend of mine was an Army Ranger, and he's one of the biggest
stockpilers of armaments I've ever seen.

Many of us cheered the television coverage of Koreans shooting the Hispanic
and black looters in LA. When the next riot comes, gonna be a lot more dead
rioters. My brother, for example, lived 4 miles from the perimeter of the
free fire zone, and he and all of his buddies stocked up on Glocks, SIGs,
and AR-15s right after the riots ended and the gun stores re-opened.

>It cites several examples of military members preparing for war at home,
>as mentioned here earlier by Attila and others, with two Marine writers
>claiming that the next Somolia will be here.
>
>This, coupled with reports on LEA inheritance of military equipment and
>lavish civilian funding to fight terrorism, portends more than Jim Bell
>(Tim May?) -type sniper takeouts.

In the infamous "Twenty-Nine Palms" poll of soldiers, asking if troops
would fire on civilians if ordered to carry out an order, the longer the
soldier had been in the service, the less likely he was to say he would.
(The context of this order is generally believed to be related to a
Department of Defense involvement in the wholesale disarming of the
population under a state of emergency, FEMA or U.N. orders, etc.)

This is consistent with the military retireds I know being _extremely_
anti-government. Usually with a right-wing flavor, but then that is
understandable.

And they're also fed up with the political correctness witch hunt in the
active military. The campaign against "skinheads" being an example. If a
soldier murders someone, black or white or whatever, prosecute them. But
making membership in a political or ethnic group a crime is unworthy of the
United States.

But all too typical.

--TIm May



The Feds have shown their hand: they want a ban on domestic cryptography
---------:---------:---------:---------:---------:---------:---------:----
Timothy C. May              | Crypto Anarchy: encryption, digital money,
ComSec 3DES:   408-728-0152 | anonymous networks, digital pseudonyms, zero
W.A.S.T.E.: Corralitos, CA  | knowledge, reputations, information markets,
Higher Power: 2^2,976,221   | black markets, collapse of governments.
"National borders aren't even speed bumps on the information superhighway."







