From: Eric Cordian <emc@wire.insync.net>
Date: Fri, 10 Oct 1997 14:36:22 +0800
To: cypherpunks@cyberpass.net
Subject: Re: Where is _my_ blowjob?
In-Reply-To: <199710100334.FAA11247@basement.replay.com>
Message-ID: <199710100605.BAA18667@wire.insync.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Anonymous writes:

> What is the relationship between "Harold" and "Norbert"?  You say
> there is no direct evidence connecting them.  What evidence does
> connect them?  Did they at least know each other?

No relationship at all, except for the fact that the police "Harold"  told
to fuck off called the team investigating "Norbert's" death and told them
"Harold" would make an excellent patsy, being in an illegal homosexual
relationship with an older man and excellent media fodder.

> While "Harold" may not be guilty of the murder, if he did kill
> "Norbert" then he should probably be treated as a murderer.  While the
> police should not harrass gays, such harrassment does not seem to make
> a good excuse for murdering an unrelated completely innocent third
> party.

I suppose, but it does seem that the only time young people get adult
rights awarded to them is when adults want to punish them for something.

Here we have a 15 year old, having a clandestine relationship with an
older friend.  He lets something slip to a therapist, who immediately
declares that the boy has no right to privacy, and communicates his
confidential medical files to the local prosecutor.  The cops accost him
in his home, take his computer hard drive, and install bugging equipment
all over the place and demand he participate in an elaborate entrapment
scheme, or they will screw him royally. 

He finaly gets up enough courage to say "NO" to the cops, and his parents
then drag him to various places where they try and get various people to
sign papers committing him to a mental institution, including a degrading
hearing in which a judge makes smug remarks about corporal punishment,
declares he is "just a kid" with no rights, and suggests that family
problems are a result of kids taking advantage of their parents niceness. 

Oh - his older friend is also arrested, and charged with every imaginable
sex crime, and held without bail. 

Failing to get him committed, the police then contact the team in charge
of the murder investigation of the uninvolved third party, and give them
his name as a suspect, whereupon he is promptly arrested and jailed
without bail as well. 

His parents lawyer then signs away all his rights to confidentiality, and
his parents start a media campaign about how the "system" let them down,
because they couldn't just get him locked up anytime they demanded.

Add to the insult the years of taunting he endured in school because he
was gay, and it probably isn't beyond the realm of possibility that he
caved someones head in with the nearest rock.  Of course, it would have
been nicer if he had terminated his parents and half a dozen jackbooted
thugs with extreme prejudice, but as we know, when someone goes postal,
it's sometimes the bystanders who take the bullets.

Although he had to right to confidentiality from his therapist, no rights
against his parents, no right against the police, no right to keep his
parents from giving all his confidential records to the press, and no
right to his own legal counsel, he now apparently has the "right" to be
tried as an "adult" and take "full adult responsibility" for any crime he
may have committed. 

I'm not suggesting killing anyone is a nice thing to do, but certainly
adults with full adult rights and responsibilities have been known to kill
far more people over far less crap that this 15 year old put up with. 

--
Eric Michael Cordian 0+
O:.T:.O:. Mathematical Munitions Division
"Do What Thou Wilt Shall Be The Whole Of The Law"





