From: nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)
Date: Tue, 18 Nov 1997 16:08:59 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: I'm from the government, and I'm here to fuck you silly...
Message-ID: <199711180701.IAA11345@basement.replay.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



                        INSLAW SUMMARY
                         By Bill Hamilton


The following information has been given to each member of the House
Judicary Committee and was placed on the Internet in electronic form
by Bill Hamilton of Inslaw Corporation.  The complete document with
supporting details may be obtained from:
 
    Inslaw
    1125 15th Street, NW
    Washington, DC 20005-2707
    Telephone (202) 828-8638
...
     One of the organizational units that reports to Mark Richard is
the Office of Special Investigations (OSI).  OSI's publicly-declared
mission is to locate and deport Nazi war criminals. The Nazi war
criminal program is, however, a front for the Justice Department's
own covert intelligence service, according to disclosures recently
made to INSLAW by several senior Justice Department career officials.
 
     One undeclared mission of this covert intelligence service has
been the illegal dissemination of the proprietary version of PROMIS,
according to information from reliable sources with ties to the U.S.
intelligence community.  INSLAW has, moreover, obtained a copy of a
27-page Justice Department computer printout, labelled "Criminal
Division Vendor List." That list is actually a list of the commercial
organizations and individuals who serve as "cutouts" for this secret
Justice Department intelligence agency, according to intelligence
community informants and a preliminary analysis of the computerized
list.  A significant proportion of the 100-plus companies on the list
appear to be in the computer industry.  The Justice Department's
secret intelligence agency also has its own "proprietary" company
that employs scores of agents of diverse nationalities, as well as
individuals who appear to be regular employees of various departments
and agencies of the U.S. Government or members of the U.S. Armed
Forces, according to several sources.





