From: Tim May <tcmay@got.net>
Date: Thu, 17 Jul 1997 16:27:51 +0800
To: cypherpunks@Algebra.COM
Subject: All of my fucking material is suitable for children of all ages
In-Reply-To: <Pine.GSO.3.95.970716111552.13849C-100000@well.com>
Message-ID: <v03102801aff383927433@[207.167.93.63]>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



At 11:40 PM -0700 7/16/97, Bill Frantz wrote:

>What does misrate mean.  My approach would be to rate everything of mine as
>max-bad.  Is that misrating because some of what I say is suitable for
>children?  It certainly would not help the people who are using the ratings
>to find porn.

My posts would _never_ be "max-bad," whatever that peculiar term may mean.

Rather, my posts should be read by children of all ages, no matter what
fucking language I use. Children should be exposed to language and images
of all types, so all of my material would of course be "suitable for
children."

Who is to say otherwise? The Office of the Censor? The Ministry of Truth?

Of course, the apparent answer is that PICS/RSAIc labels would be applied
on a Web site basis by various licensed, credentialed, certified, and
regulated ratings agencies.

All highly unconstitutional if required by the government. On various
grounds. Besides being a nightmare to try to enforce.

If just an agreement by browser makers and search engine companies, then no
constitutional issues. (Not that I would _like_ it, but then there are a
lot of nongovernmental things I don't like.)

In any case, many of us knew this was coming. The archives will show that
several of us pointed out the extreme likelihood of PICS being used in just
this nefarious sort of way. Nothing surprising.

Those involved in mandatory censorship simply need to be <censored>, that
is all. I no longer think dialog with them is worth my time.

That the ACLU and other so-called 'civil rights' groups think that sitting
down with Bill Clinton and Al Gore and jawboning about mandatory ratings,
about collusion between companies to enforce moral standards, and about
punishment for "misrating" is just more evidence of how sick the whole
system has gotten. They should just tell the government to stay out of
content regulation of any sort, period.

--Tim May


--
[This Bible excerpt awaiting review under the U.S. Communications Decency
Act of 1996]
And then Lot said, "I have some mighty fine young virgin daughters. Why
don't you boys just come on in and fuck them right here in my house - I'll
just watch!"....Later, up in the mountains, the younger daughter said:
"Dad's getting old. I say we should fuck him before he's too old to fuck."
So the two daughters got him drunk and screwed him all that night. Sure
enough, Dad got them pregnant, and had an incestuous bastard son....Onan
really hated the idea of doing his brother's wife and getting her pregnant
while his brother got all the credit, so he pulled out before he
came....Remember, it's not a good idea to have sex with your sister, your
brother, your parents, your pet dog, or the farm animals, unless of course
God tells you to. [excerpts from the Old Testament, Modern Vernacular
Translation, TCM, 1996]






