From: Rick Osborne <osborne@gateway.grumman.com>
Date: Tue, 26 Aug 1997 02:21:19 +0800
To: cypherpunks mailing list <cypherpunks@Algebra.COM>
Subject: Bypassing the trap door for LanMan
Message-ID: <3.0.3.32.19970825140545.009f15f0@gateway.grumman.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



I was thinking about LanMan passwords on NT (thanks to Hobbit and Mudge for
the background) when it occurred to me that you don't *really* have to
brute force the entire keyspace to get a password under the two systems.
Bear with me here for a sec, and please let me know if something I say is
incorrect.  I haven't read through Applied Crypto in a while and may be a
bit rusty.

What I'm thinking is this: why do you need *the* password?  Can't you just
find an MD5 collision by working the algorithm in reverse?  Obviously, when
working it in reverse you are highly unlikely to get *the* password, but if
you then shove what you got back through and it hashes out to the same
thing, what difference does it make?

We know that you can grab Win32 password hashed with minimal effort (thanks
to pwdump), and since the salt in those passwords is constant, and since
the LanMan password is just an uppercased version of the NTLM password,
could we not reverse-engineer that hash to get a working version of the
password?  It shouldn't have to be *the* password, as no challenge/response
system is in place for LanMan, and it only has to hash out to the same
thing (which is guaranteed).

Also, in a RL scenario, you'd only need the password once: to add a given
account to the Domain Admins group, or to create such an account in the
first place.  At that point, you use your dummy account and you are good to
go.

So we have a system here:
1. Use `net view` to get a list of all nodes on the network.
2. Get the list of Domain Admins.
3. Pass that list of nodes to successive calls to pwdump to
   grab passwords from the registries, until you find one that
   a Domain Admin has logged into.
4. Reverse-engineer the Domain Admin's password and create an
   account in the Domain Admin group.
5. Use pwdump on the PDC to get the list of all usernames
   and passwords.

Now, if pwdump could be done in Perl (using Win32::Registry), then this
entire process could be automated (also using Win32::AdminMisc and a
backwards version of Cypto::MD5) trivially.  Also, since MS has yet to
truly fix the GetAdmin problem, steps 1-4 can be replaced with a single
call to that.

Using L0phtCrack (or something similar) and a nice big wordlist (say, 2
million words), I estimate that some 60%-70% of the user passwords could be
gotten in this manner, including a few of the Domain Admins' (assuming
normal, non-cypto-savvy Domain Admins), in under 2 hrs of work.

Now, as a lighter side of this, this could also be useful: Say you already
are a domain admin and are unhappy with the level of security your site is
using.  And say that whenever a user forgets their password it is reset to
something trivial (like 'password' or their employee number, etc).  A large
number of employees are not going to change that reset password (unless
User Must Change Password is set).  An Admin could therefore hash out
'password', dump the entire user/pass list, and force the ones with the
same hash to change their password at the next logon (this is in a bitfield
somewhere).  This script could be set to run once a week, insuring
non-trivial passwords.  In an environment where management refuses to
institute strong-password securities, this could be a trivial way for an
Admin to do it him/herself, without making it obvious what is going on or
without making too much work for themselves.

--Rick
[Who has *just* that kind of management. :( ]

-- Rick Osborne, <osborne@gateway.grumman.com>
Real programmers don't use APL, unless the whole program can be written
on one line.





