From: "Attila T. Hun" <attila@hun.org>
Date: Mon, 15 Dec 1997 14:10:49 +0800
To: cypherpunks <cypherpunks@cyberpass.net>
Subject: Bell sentencing
Message-ID: <19971215.033405.attila@hun.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

    the charges of intimidating an IRS agent are felonies
    the stinkbomb charge in a federal building is a felony
    the tax evasion charges are felonies
    
    virtually all federal felonies start with 5 years and
    increase from there. federal misdemeanors have a sentence 
    limitation of 1 year less 1 day.
    
    under the sentencing guidelines, it is difficult for the
    judge to hand down less than the specified guideline unless
    a deal has been cut --big time, I would say in this case.
    the prosecutor and public defender agreed on one year, but
    probation and parole asked for two years -therefore the 
    plea bargained charge was a felony.
    
    secondly, the Feds almost always file the charge itself, 
    plus a separate charge of conspiracy (even if they do call
    the rest of the conspirators "unknown") which carries the
    same time as the act of commission.  you can rack up some
    serious time with Fed charges which do not seem like much
    until they multiple count the indictment and add conspiracy.
    given the exposure of this case, etc. there was a deal cut
    someplace.
    
    frankly, I would rather do 3 years inside instead of "highly
    supervised" tail --some asshole social worker cum parole
    officer that can literally tell you when you can shit; if he
    tells you to start polishing the apple, you best be getting
    on your knees and get on with it.  you have more rights in
    federal prison than you do with a PO and his inferiority
    or dogooder complex --either way, you are his victim.
    
    personally, I think Bell was lucky --or he rolled over and
    the fruits of his loose tongue will start new lives for new
    political prisoners of the U.S. gestapo. I'll put my money
    on the rollover.  too many unanswered questions; books
    returned marked "not a prisoner"; writing a letter
    acknowledging he was a "bad person"; and all that good 
    stuff.

    Bell just snitched out; he doesn't look like the type that
    would do well under pressure. maybe a lot of bark, but no
    bite to tell the man to fuck off.

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.6.3i
Charset: latin1
Comment: No safety this side of the grave. Never was; never will be

iQBVAwUBNJSp2rR8UA6T6u61AQHsOAH9GXK+cHv91438Cmr9INsDCCEIbpWL9YO6
HDsWygSXSIWftoQl0+SFUL7/6mcjPlxt7N5nTlCub4zA0JQZYEHq2w==
=GPPA
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----





