From: dlv@bwalk.dm.com (Dr.Dimitri Vulis KOTM)
Date: Mon, 13 Jan 1997 10:38:44 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: New Carmen Sandiego shows announced
In-Reply-To: <Sa90.6d7a@clarinet.com>
Message-ID: <kFDH1D1w165w@bwalk.dm.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Path: perun!news2.panix.com!panix!news.columbia.edu!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!news.msfc.nasa.gov!newsfeed.internetmci.com!howland.erols.net!news.bbnplanet.com!cam-news-hub1.bbnplanet.com!news.idt.net!enews.sgi.com!lll-winken.llnl.gov!fugue.clari.net!funny-request
From: verax@mindspring.com (Serenleono, the Serene Lion)
Newsgroups: rec.humor.funny
Subject: New Carmen Sandiego shows announced
Keywords: chuckle, swearing, racial stereotypes
Message-ID: <Sa90.6d7a@clarinet.com>
Date: Fri, 10 Jan 97 19:30:03 EST
Organization: Lord Tower Productions (USA)
Lines: 57
Approved: funny-request@clari.net


	 BOSTON, M. A. (Freuder) - The two most popular
children's educational game shows -- "Where in the World is
Carmen Sandiego?" and "Where in Time is Carmen Sandiego?" --
now have two new siblings, according to an announcement made
today by WGHB Boston, one of the production entities that
owns the popular programs.   "Where in the World is Carmen
Sandiego?" is a game show which challenges young contestants
on their knowledge of world geography while they "track
down" the infamous villain Carmen Sandiego.  Similarly,
"Where in Time is Carmen Sandiego?" quizes children about
ancient and modern history.

Because of the enormous positive response received from
educators, parents' groups, and kids alike, WGHB Boston,
WPED Pittsburgh, and the Incorporation for Public
Broadcasting this week announced a new set of television
programs to expand their children's educational programming
group.  The two new incarnations will be entitled "Where Dat
Carmen Bitch At?" which challenges contestants on their
knowledge of racial stereotypes, and "Where the Fuck is
Carmen Sandiego?" which quizes young contestants on their
knowledge of the human reproductive system.

from the first broadcast of:
WHERE DAT CARMEN BITCH AT?

QUERIST:  "Okay, contestants, the next question is, 'What do
you call the white man when he oppresses your people?"

CONTESTANT TIMMY:  "A 'honkey'?"
CONTESTANT TRISHA:  "I answer, 'a jive-ass mother fucker'?"
CONTESTANT LAWANDA:  "I also say, 'a jive-ass mutha fucka.'"

QUERIST:  "Right you are, Trisha and Lawanda!  And may the
white man never forget what he has wrought against the tribe
of Shabaaz."


from the first broadcast of:
WHERE THE FUCK IS CARMEN SANDIEGO?

QUERIST:  "Okay, contestants, here's the next question in
our 'testosterone teaser round':  What is the name for
fellatio during which the penis is taken into the throat?"

CONTESTANT TIMMY:  "Uh, I answer a 'Madonna mouthwash'?"
CONTESTANT TRISHA:  "The 'mother of all blow jobs'?"
CONTESTANT LAWANDA:  "That's nasty!  Momma, get me off this
show!"

--
Selected by Jim Griffith.  MAIL your joke to funny@clari.net.
Attribute the joke's source if at all possible.  A Daemon will auto-reply.

Remember: Only ONE joke per submission.  Extra jokes may be rejected.
For the full submission guidelines, see http://comedy.clari.net/rhf/




