From: paul@fatmans.demon.co.uk
Date: Sat, 25 Jan 1997 01:58:47 -0800 (PST)
To: ichudov@algebra.com
Subject: Re: Rejection policy of the Cypherpunks mailing list
Message-ID: <854185258.62147.0@fatmans.demon.co.uk>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



> I would like to start a thread to discuss the moderation and rejection 
> policy.

No doubt we all would but such threads may, without recourse to proper 
moderation, all be thrown into cypherpunks-flames if Sandy believes
they will be critical of him. (prove me wrong Sandy, send this to the 
moderated list).
 
> My perfectly crypto-relevant article regarding possible attacks
> on human relationships with the use of forged mail and anonymous
> remailers, has been tossed out (sorted) into cypherpunks-flames 
> mailing list.

I don`t think I read the article (even though I subscribe to the 
unmoderated list), can you forward me a copy.
As I understand it though, from other comentaries, it was junked 
because it was in response to a message by Dimitri who, given that it 
is Sandy that is moderating the list, is no doubt filtered by 
different criteria than anyone else on the list, in my opinion a 
censorous and fascist restraint as Dimitri has recently been posting 
more crypto relevant material, besides which whatever the content of 
his posts they should be open to review before a decision is made on 
if they are to be junked or not.
 
> Sandy also states rather plainly that crypto-relevance is not the
> criterion by which he moderates this list. I question this policy.

Yes Sandy, please enlighten us, what is the criterion you use to 
moderate the list if not crypto-relevancy. I suspect an element of 
self preservation and protection of the list fuhrer and diktat maker 
John Gilmore (who, until the disgraceful incident with Dimitri 
commanded some respect on this list).
 
> I would like to hear your opinions as to whether such policies satisfy
> the current readership.

I don`t think this is the point, John Gilmore is free to appoint 
whoever he wants to moderate his list, he is free to censor all 
messages which criticise him and his censorship, however, subscribers 
to the list should be told they are being censored on these grounds 
and not on some facade of "crypto relevancy" or another thin veil 
drawn weakly over content based censorship to protect a certain class 
of list members.


  Datacomms Technologies web authoring and data security
       Paul Bradley, Paul@fatmans.demon.co.uk
  Paul@crypto.uk.eu.org, Paul@cryptography.uk.eu.org    
       Http://www.cryptography.home.ml.org/
      Email for PGP public key, ID: 5BBFAEB1
     "Don`t forget to mount a scratch monkey"




