From: "D. Reynolds" <listserv_remove@homepublishing.com>
Date: Sun, 23 Nov 1997 21:47:17 +0800
To: <cypherpunks@toad.com>
Subject: FREE DEMO! Submit Your Web Site To Over 600 Search Engines.
Message-ID: <HMPB81764C34@homepublishing.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



If you wish to be removed from this mailing list, please reply
with the subject "Remove" and this software will automatically
block you from future mailings.


------

Register Your Web Site To Over 600 Search Engines "Instantly". FREE DOWNLOAD.


I would like to inform you about a new, and exciting award winning
product that will save you both countless hours, and increase
your exposure on the Internet immeasurably! Known as the
Submission Wizard our program offers web users such as
yourself, the ability to automatically submit your site to
over 600 search engines in just one session . Select from
different categories even countries, the choice is yours.

The submission process is very simple, efficient, and most
importantly fast. All you do is provide standard site
information i.e. site name, address, description,
and a few well chosen keywords. The Submission Wizard
takes this information, and changes it into the format
required by each different engine, then registers your
web site. It's that simple!

In addition, the Wizard's database of search engines and
directories is constantly being updated every week,
thus giving your site fresh and relevant exposure. Also
the Wizard allows you to register multiple URL's.

Just imagine the possibilities! Take charge of your web
exposure, try out the Submission Wizard demo FREE by
following the provided hyperlink. We know you'll be as
excited about it as much as we are!

For your FREE DOWNLOAD visit our site at
http://www.submissions.com/demo.html


One of the most asked questions that we get asked is
"How do I get my site listed to the top of the search
engines?" Like Yahoo, Excite, Infoseek, Webcrawler, HotBot,
Lycos, & AltaVista, Here is the answer.

Now available "The Step by Step Guide to Successfully
Promoting a Web Site" which has been designed to teach you
everything you need to know about each of the major search
engines before you request search engines to add your web
site to their database.

For more information on this book please visit

http://www.submissions.com/theguide.html

It's The Best Investment You Can Make To Build Your Business.
Knowledge is Power!

Thank you for your time, and good luck with your web promotion.

NOTE: If you are using an Apple platform you will need windows
emulation software.


Thank you for your time,


D.  Reynolds
Customer Services.





