From: websp@wsp1.websp.com
Date: Sun, 6 Jul 1997 04:42:27 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Inexpensive Web Space
Message-ID: <199707061139.HAA06025@wsp1.websp.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


We are a new company in the Internet Presence Provider business,
appropriately named The WebService Provider. We are looking for new
customers who need a place to host their web pages. We offer premium
services at a low price.  Our services range from email addresses to
virtual domains.  Most providers in this area of business give you a
small amount of space to host your web pages for the same price as ours.  

Check out our web page at http://www.websp.com to sign up or for more
information.

Our prices:
Type:                   Monthly Fee:   Setup Fee:   Includes:    
Personal Account        $15            $0           20MB CGI 1 Email
Business Account        $25            $0           40MB CGI 5 Email
Virtual Domain          $0!!!          $30*         www.yourname.com 
Virtual Host            $0!!!          $30          yourname.websp.com
Shell Account           $10            $0           10MB 1 Email
Email Address           $5             $5           1 Email (pop or pine)
* excluding $100 InterNIC fee

Here are some questions we asked ourselves when starting up our web
hosting business.


Why you should have a web page for yourself or your business?

Having a web page gives you an inexpensive way to reach potentially
millions of people.  The World Wide Web is one of the fastest growing
mediums in today's society.  So, you only have the possiblity to reach
more people.  With a web page you can spread your ideas, services,
and products.  When you sign up for our service you not only get space for
your web pages on our server, but an email address that your net visitors
can respond to you at instantaneously.  You can can get feedback about
your page immediately through your email address.  


Why should your web page be hosted with The WebService Provider?

The WebService Provider has the invested its money in the fastest
technology available to us.  We have a Pentium Pro Web Server with 64MB of
RAM (soon to be 128MB), and a 10/mbs connection (almost 10 times the speed
of a T1) to our T3 (45 times the speed of a T1) provider.  Our connection
is solely dedicated to your web pages.  We don't have dial-in customers
bogging down the connection that is supposed to be for serving your web
pages.

We not only have the technical side, but if you have a problem we are here
to answer it.  All email is responded to the same day, and if we don't
have an answer for you, we'll get back to you the same day letting you
know what the story is.  All of our employees have an extensive background
in the Internet and in system administration.


Why should you sign up with The WebService Provider and not your current
Internet Service Provider?

If you sign up for web space at your current ISP, and you move, so does
your web page and your email address.  With the WebService Provider your
web page address (url) and email address never change no matter what ISP
you sign up with.


Please visit our web page at www.websp.com, we look forward to hearing
from you.  If you want more information about us or the services we
provide feel free to email us at info@websp.com (human email).

Thanks,
The WebService Provider

***
If you did not want to recieve this message don't worry we will never
send it to you again.  Sorry!




