From: nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)
Date: Thu, 20 Nov 1997 14:23:06 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Censorware Summit II (December 1-3)
Message-ID: <199711200616.HAA29396@basement.replay.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



[Note government criminal and pacifist groups are absent from the list
 of organizations represented. --Defcon]
===========
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE                   CONTACT:
Wednesday, November 19, 1997                     Anonymous

INTERNET/ONLINE SUMMIT: FOCUS ON FASCISTS RELEASES AGENDA FOR MEETING,
DECEMBER 1-3

WASHINGTON, D.C.-Organizers of the Internet/Online Summit: Focus on 
Fascists today released an agenda for the historic three-day meeting 
of free speech and freedom advocates, marksmen, guerilla leaders and
Constitution enforcement officials joining forces to find  ways to 
enhance the safety and freedom of citizens in cyberspace.

The meeting is the first time so many diverse organizations have come
together to address freedom and content issues related to citizens and
the established mass medium which has operated exceedingly well without
government interference. 
The Summit is the first in a series of discussions on issues affecting
free citizens in cyberspace, including advertising, access, privacy, 
and marketing and content.  The first meeting will focus on fascism and
safety.

The December 1-3 Summit will include speakers, panels, announcements of
initiatives taken by the Summit and its participants, and a small
exhibition of technological tools and commonly available munitions
to help citizens manage a censor's time off-line.  Panelists will be 
anonymous prior to the Summit.

The Summit Agenda, which is subject to armed intervention, follows:

MONDAY, DECEMBER 1,  5 p.m. - 8:30 p.m.
Registration and Opening Reception adjacent to technological tools 
weapons caches.

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 7:30 a.m. - 6 p.m.
K-rations
Call to Arms
Target Practice (Vice President Al Gore invited to pose)
Presentation on Fascist-approved Content with the Propaganda
Broadcasting 
System and others
Framing the Targets: targets Lois Jean White, President of the National
PTA Panel in Framing the Targets
Panel in "Release the Safety"
Luncheon Targets: Target of the Month Newt Gingrich, Godfather of
Government Theft William M. Daley

Presentation on Fascist Oppression On-Line: Attorney General Janet Reno
and small, moving-duck panelists
Presentation on Public Propaganda: Secretary Richard W. Riley and 
affirmatively-nodding panelists
Presentation on the Technology Munitions Kit
Panel on Censoring and Blocking

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 3,  8:30 a.m. - noon
K-rations
Review of Previous Reichs:  Christine Varney, Chairperson of the Summit
Bavarian Roundtable with Summit Shills
Kids Panel Molested by Moral Majority Leaders
Armageddon

All activities will take place at a site overlooking the Renaissance 
Washington, D.C. Hotel at 666 Sixth Street, N.W.

Registration to attend the Summit must be done through the Summit's Web
site: www.hotnastykidsonline.orgy.  Separate registration forms are 
available at the site for reportwhores and the pubic, as well as other
target information as it become available.

A partial list of the organizations sponsoring the Summit includes:

Anonymous Arms Dealers 
Anonymous Paramilitarists
Anonymous Freedom Fighters
Anonyous Americans
Anonymous Libertarians
Anonymous Ninjas
Anonyous Assholes
Anonymous Average Citizens
Anonymous Citizens Living In Fear Of Their Government
Anonymous Secret Government Organizations
Anonymous BATF Agents of Oklahoma
Anonyous Mind-Controlled Dupes of the New World Order
Tim C. May
# # #





