From: Ariel Glenn <ariel@watsun.cc.columbia.edu>
Date: Wed, 25 Jun 1997 00:48:48 +0800
To: cypherpunks@cyberpass.net
Subject: Netscape, 128-bit export
Message-ID: <CMM.0.90.4.867170404.ariel@stealth.cc.columbia.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



from their web site, at
http://www.netscape.com/flash2/newsref/pr/newsrelease428.html
---

MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. (June 24, 1997) -- Netscape Communications
Corporation (NASDAQ: NSCP) today announced the
United States Department of Commerce has granted the company permission
to export Netscape Communicator client software
with 128-bit encryption capabilities. Available for immediate download
from the Netscape Internet site, Netscape Communicator
with strong encryption would allow users worldwide to enjoy far greater
protection for their information when communicating with
certified, strong encryption applications on Intranets and the
Internet. 

Netscape also received approval to export Netscape SuiteSpot server
software featuring 128-bit encryption capabilities to certified
banks worldwide. VeriSign will be providing a special-use digital
certificate which enables the encryption. This will allow Netscape
Communicator users to access their banking information from almost
anywhere in the world and communicate using strong
encryption with those banks which have implemented Netscape SuiteSpot
servers and completed the certification process. 

--- some pr crap deleted ---


International users who have Netscape Communicator do not need to
download a new version of Netscape Communicator to take
advantage of the strong encryption capabilities being announced today.
Negotiation of the strong encryption between international
versions of Netscape Communicator and Netscape SuiteSpot servers
approved for export to banks occurs through a unique
mechanism based on a special-use digital certificate.

etc...

-----

So... is this new approval for export of 128-bit encryption 
only for encryption between the users and these banks,
or is it general? If it's general, is GAK built in or not?
And if not, how did they get approval?

Ariel Glenn / AcIS R&D / Columbia University
ariel@columbia.edu
#include <stddisclaimer.h>





