From: nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)
Date: Tue, 4 Nov 1997 20:08:24 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Porn gave me brain damage!!
Message-ID: <199711041153.MAA10955@basement.replay.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



	I have been reading this list for some time now but have only posted a few
messages, you might recall them, they were about the government using
perceived threats to convince the public that they 
needed legislation to protect them from harmful elements on the 
Internet. I am not posting now about any sort of government conspiracy
or mind control tactics used to convince people they need to give up rights
in order to be safe, I am posting to tell you all how very wrong I was.

	I have just come from the neurologist where I was diagnosed with dementia
pornographia, a syndrome caused by exposure to pornography. 
I have been afflicted with an obsession with pornography since I first
realized I was attracted to women. I remember looking at them and imagining
them with no clothes on. I know now that this is when the damage was begun,
and there is nothing I can do now to reverse it.
	My first taste of pornography was in junior high school. We had a sex ed
class and the textbook was full of crudely drawn genetalia. I looked at
these pictures frequently while studying, little did I know what was being
done to me, the pictures were causing chemical changes in my brain,
stimulating synapses and causing neurons to fire.
	At first I was like any normal kid, very loving and close to my family. As
I got drawn deeper and deeper into pornography I changed, 
first I started hanging around with other boys interested in female
genetalia. Then I started searching through my parents belongings and
stealing whatever I could to support my habits. Newspapers, catalogs,
books, national geographic, anything with pictures of women in it would do.
My parents didn't understand what I was going through they just 
assumed that I was going through a phase, they didn't know that my little
"phase" caused new hormones to be released into my brain changing it 
for good.
	Through most of my high school and college years I was a 
dedicated porn user. I always surrounded myself with people that thought
porn was "cool" or that it was "no big deal". I became increasingly
estranged from my family and even went so far as to move away from home 
for my freshman year in college. I was 18 now and could legally buy
dangerous pornographic material. Once I was living away from home I started
experimenting with pre-marital sex. At first I knew it was 
wrong, but all my friends were doing it so I did it to fit in. Soon I
became to desire it, even need it. If I went for a while without it I would
do just about anything to "get laid". 
	When A friend of mine introduced me to the Internet all my
prayers had been answered, all the porn I could ever need and people 
werejust giving it away. I was chipping away at my brain bit by bit, 
every site, every newsgroup, every picture, every chatroom, was drawing me
deeper into the world of porn. Then I read Jodi Hoffmam's post and I knew
that I needed help. 

	I hope that this can help people, I am to far gone to be helped
now. I hope people can learn from the mistakes I made. I hope something 
can be done to stop the rampant proliferation of porn from hurting other
innocent children, too young to know better, but having lost their
innocence and having experienced more than any child should. It is the
children that are losing in the war against pornography.
   

	--Bucky





