From: nobody@huge.cajones.com (Huge Cajones Remailer)
Date: Tue, 7 Jan 1997 08:40:34 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: infowar - defense - DOD
Message-ID: <199701071640.IAA22329@mailmasher.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain




              DoD Information Warfare (IW) 

              Department of Defense
              Topic(s): Government BPR Project Reports 
    [Home]
              Document Listing by: [Title] [Author] [Topic] [Coverage] [Source] 



Abstract: Lead Agency: OASD (C31)

Functional Area: Command and Control


Project Title: DoD Information Warfare (IW) 

Functional Area: Command & Control 

Lead Agency: OASD(C3I) 

Summary: To achieve information superiority in support of national military strategy, a joint DoD team reengineered DoD Information Warfare
processes. A high-level model was developed to provide a consensus view of key processes and data. This evaluation will lead to the
development of a national IW policy, an assessment of IW vulnerability, and a standard risk management process. 

Description: The mission of this project was to develop a baseline activity model for current IW processes, identify improvement opportunities,
and recommend a plan for the application of Business Process Reengineering to IW. Representatives from the Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS), Army,
Navy, Air Force, Marines, Defense Intelligence Agency, National Security Agency, and the Defense Information Systems Agency participated in
the project. 

Improvements: Nine specific improvements were identified including: 

Development of a joint, coordinated effort to identify and assess the vulnerabilities of military operations and systems and the defense information
infrastructure. 

Development of a standardized process for risk management. 

Development of a national policy for the conduct of IW. 

Benefit: The improvements will provide an improved ability to achieve information superiority in support of national military strategy by affecting
adversary information, information systems, and information processes while leveraging and defending U.S. information, information systems, and
information processes. 

Predicted Savings: Not reported 

Investment: Not reported 

Point of Contact: 

LCOL Liz Anderson 

OASD (C3I) IW 

6000 Defense Pentagon 

Washington, D.C. 20301-6000 

(703)614-0624 

DSN: 224-0624 

INFOWAR.WPD 

3252D.html 





