From: mailbox@softcell.net
Date: Mon, 13 Jan 1997 18:28:47 -0800 (PST)
Subject: Network Neighbor
Message-ID: <19970114022133.AAE1930@Default>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain




Dear Neighbor:

I selected your name from an Internet Email Provider.  Please accept my
apologies if I have offended you by sending you this email.  I will not send
you any more email again.  If you read on you will understand why I sent
it and will hopefully forgive me if you found this email to be an intrusion
of your space.

I am part of a small Internet company from San Francisco that recently
brought on-line the largest collection of high-end Dungeon toys and
apparel in the world.  We really are the largest!!  We have thousands of
items.  You won't believe  the stuff we sell: HUMAN CAGES, RACKS,
LEATHER AND RUBBER STRAIT JACKETS,  IRONS, and much
more.  Some items are so unique and sexually special that it would be
inappropriate to mention them in this email.  If we don't have it, we can
find it or make it!  We don't sell cheap Asian imports.  In fact, most of
those items are cheap imitations of ours.  We display our products using
provocative and very entertaining interactive pictorials.

Along the way, with input and help from our select members, we have
added instructional VIDEOS, action VIDEOS,  DUNGEON CHAT,
PERSONALS, ADVICE COLUMNS, Erotic Photo Contest,  Erotic
Writing Contest, and one of our most exciting sections, "THE EXOTIC
EROTIC BALL"  PICTORIAL.

This year we sent 10 photographers to San Francisco's Exotic Erotic Ball, 
the largest adult Halloween Ball in the world.  We took over a 1,000
photos.  We categorized them into over a dozen sections, including: Breast
of the Exotic Erotic,  Caught in the Act (People filmed having sex at the
ball),  Cool Female Costumes,  etc..

Our site has grown into the largest Dungeon Fantasy site on the net and in
the world.  We have developed and grown the site based on our members'
requirements.  It worked out so well, we decided to let other interested
neighbors know about it and share our enjoyment.

That is why I have emailed you.  We are a small company that now has the
largest Dungeon site in the world.  We can not afford to do a major PR
campaign to share what our members and we have built.  So, we selected a
few network neighbors like you, in the hope that you might explore our
services and then tell others.

If you would like to see what we have,  please check out our URLs:

       http://www.sfdungeon.com

                For Video
       http://www.dungeonvideo.com

                For Personals
       http://www.dungeonpersonals.com

You can email me at synder@softcell.net

Thank you for taking the time to read this letter.


Sincerely

Ken Synder


P.S.  Again, if I have offended you with this email, please accept my
apologies.  I WILL NOT EMAIL YOU AGAIN.






