From: ichudov@algebra.com (Igor Chudov @ home)
Date: Mon, 17 Mar 1997 18:33:41 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Technology and loss of freedom
Message-ID: <199703180220.UAA09325@manifold.algebra.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text


Hi,

I have a thesis that it is the development of technology that has, over
the last 100 years, eroded the basis for and appreciation of human
freedom.  Technology has also done precious little for advancing human
freedoms (although cryptography may be an exception).

Let's first define freedom as the ability of people to do things without
forceful interference from the government. This is an arbitrary
definition, but it appears to be useful for the analysis below.

First of all, 200 years ago it was very hard for lone people to endanger
lives of themselves and many others. For example, the only weapons that
were available were single shot and double shot rifles that were very
slow to reload. Similarly, people did not have fast moving vehicles and
any traffic did not present serious danger for innocent bystanders.

Poison gases were not available, and the explosives technology
was far less advanced. Even if it was possible to set up a large
explosion, limitations in building construction made them useless.

"Hard drugs" also became available only in the recent past [please 
correct me] due to advancements in chemistry and medicine.

You can well imagine that airline terrorism could not appear before 
airlines.

No doubt that I only touched upon a very small percentage of newly
existent dangers that are created by the technology.

At the same time, developments in technology made it easy to spy on and
brainwash citizens. TV, which is the ultimate brainwashing machine, came
in play only very recently. The wiretapping is new also. It is the
remoteness feature of "bugs" that made spying so much cheaper than
hiring "stukachi" -- snitches.

If you ride a horse, there is no perceived need for an airbag or a
mandatory horse insurance. If all houses are 1 story tall, nobody is afraid
of an OK City type explosion.

With the advent of technology, the balance of perceived social needs and
government capabilities shifted radically, and it shifted away from the
great freedoms of the past. The public perception of freedom now is that
freedom is inherently dangerous and is a threat to the public itself.

Is that an evil CoNspiRaCY of purebred sovoks and Zion agents or it is a
natural consequence of inventions that dramatically changed the place of
the man in the world? I am not sure.

	- Igor.




