From: nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)
Date: Tue, 29 Jul 1997 15:10:27 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: y2k problem *serious*
Message-ID: <199707290640.IAA04623@basement.replay.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Vladimir Z. Nuri wrote:
>
> some people have talked about the y2k problem here, the
> "year 2000 problem". as programmers know, is the
> name given to the glitches that are caused by software
> malfunctioning because it only used 2 characters for the
> date field.
...
>  some recent new data and analysis by someone
> named Gary North causes me to rethink my position.
> it's somewhat alarmist, but he's got some excellent evidence.
> he believes the year 2000 problem is vastly more serious
> than anyone has realized. he thinks it may even lead to
> bank panics and instabilities in the entire worldwide
> economic system.

  There is an underground computer organization in place which is
actively working toward sabotaging government and corporate efforts
to resolve the Year 2000 problems. They began coordinating their
efforts in 1990, almost a decade before the powers-that-be will
finally get around to recognizing the need to definitively move
on the matter in a major way.
  In essence, the goals of the organization have been to promote
the most unwieldy, unworkable and inefficient solutions possible
to the Year 2000 programming problems which exist on various
platforms. It was forseen that the problem would be a weak point
in the New Electronic World Order that could be effectively used
to inject chaos and diversion into the plans of the secret world
governments to turn the Internet into a tool of government and
corporate fascism.

  The end goal is to be able to manage a breakdown of the current
world-power structure in a manner that will allow society to be
able to survive and continue, while shifting the source of power
and control to the innovative individuals and organizations who
are able to adapt and evolve in the InterActive Electronic Age
of Communication.
  The problems of creeping fascism are closely related to the
problems that result from statism. Even anarchist recognize the
need for social order and contracts, but not at gunpoint--not
in a static system which results in the rich getting richer and
the strong getting stronger.
  A controlled breadown of existing systems will prevent the
stifling of our freedom to grow and evolve by those whose interests
lie in crushing innovation and evolutionary progress. It will give
those who have the capacity to adapt and survive an edge in the
development of the evolving Age of Information.

  We are on the threshold of the dawning of a New Age which will
be every bit as world-changing as the Industrial Revolution. It is
up to each of us, as individuals, to choose whether we will attempt
to cling blindly to the past or stride boldly into the future.
  The criminals who are currently in power are a danger to our lives
and our freedom. Their interest lies in maintaining the currently
prevailing power structures, and in stifling and oppressing those
ideas and individuals who threaten their hold on the reigns of
power.
  There is a need for spies and saboteurs who are capable of working
on their own, or in small cells, to disrupt the attempts of the
fascists, the censors, the power-grabbers, to define, rate and
censor, to control and manipulate world markets and currencies,
to monitor all activities and communications and suppress those
who would think or act in ways which are contrary to the goals
of the New Electronic World Order.

  The "Digital Revolution" began almost a decade ago, regardless of
when "Wired" copyrighted the phrase.
  Feel free to join the revolution and do your part to change the
course of history. Government and Corporate fascism is much like
configurable software--it "defaults" to certain settings, but the
more individuals who customize it to meet their own needs, then
the more those who produce that software will have to strive to
meet the legitimate needs of the *users* in order to retain their
votes/market-share, instead of requiring the users to bend to
meet the "legitimate" needs of the Fa$cists and Ca$h Cow$.
  Your rights and freedoms are your inheritance. Will you allow them
to be sold for a "bowl of pottage?"

Bubba Rom Dos
'0' if by land. '1' if by sea. 'NULL' if by air.





