From: Declan McCullagh <declan@well.com>
Date: Wed, 10 Dec 1997 01:05:09 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Senator to review "voluntary" privacy guidelines
Message-ID: <Pine.GSO.3.95.971209085144.27958F-100000@well.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



[So much for the privacy code being "voluntary." It's precisely as
voluntary and ill-advised as the Vchip or PICS. All illustrate one point:
if corporations don't self-regulate, the government will do it for them.
--Declan]

---------- Forwarded message ----------
Date: Mon, 08 Dec 1997 18:11:38 -0500
From: Aaron Pressman <aaron.pressman@reuters.com>

US lawmaker to review info industry's privacy code
    WASHINGTON, Dec 8 (Reuters) - U.S. Senate Commerce Committee chairman
John McCain said Monday he planned to review voluntary industry efforts to
protect the privacy of people using the Internet.
   The Arizona Republican made the statement in a letter to the head of the
 Information Technology Industry Council, a group of computer manufacturers
 that unveiled on Monday a code of conduct for respecting privacy on their
sites on the Internet's World Wide Web.
   "I look forward to reviewing these standards at the Commerce Committee,"
 McCain said.
   McCain called the group's eight privacy principles "a good first step,"
adding that he was "pleased the industry took it upon itself to attempt to
deal with this important issue."
   Council officials said the voluntary guidelines were, in part, intended
to address the concerns of lawmakers and President Bill Clinton, who in
July challenged the industry to come up with practices to protect privacy.
   The council included major personal computer makers such as Dell
Computer Corp <DELL.O> and Compaq Computer Corp <CPQ.N>, chipmakers like
Intel Corp <INTC.O> and Motorola Inc <MOT.N> and manufacturers of related
gear like AMP Inc <AMP.N> and Lexmark International Group Inc <LXK.N>.
   The guidelines recommend that a company notify consumers of what
personal data are being collected on a Web site and allow them some degree
of choice over how the data are used.
   Technological solutions should be employed "enabling individual data
providers to exercise choice and control over their personal data," the
guidelines said.
   Companies should also limit the collection of data to what is needed for
 valid business reasons and to ensure the data's accuracy and security.
   One aspect of the guidelines that could draw fire from the White House
and Capitol Hill concerns the protection of children's privacy.
   In July, Clinton said protecting children, who might be unable to make
"informed choices" about revealing personal information, could justify some
 legislation.
   The new guidelines recommend only that parents teach their children
appropriate behavior. "Individuals should use their powers of choice in the
 marketplace to safeguard their personal data and that of the children,"
the guidelines said in the only explicit reference to youngsters.








