From: Greg Rose <ggr@Qualcomm.com>
Date: Mon, 3 Feb 1997 07:25:52 -0800 (PST)
To: cryptography@c2.net
Subject: Re: PCS Encryption?
Message-ID: <199702031525.HAA26015@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


"Douglas C. Merrill" writes:
>At 03:30 PM 2/1/97 -0500, Steven Bellovin wrote:
>>And an illegal wiretap besides, most likely -- with a warrant, they could
>>simply put the tap at the base station.  The story may be true, but it
>>doesn't sound quite right to me.

It doesn't sound quite right to me either.

>Phil Karn is, of course, the expert on this -- I hope he'll chime in soon
>-- Phil, you out there??

I'm not Phil, but maybe I'll do.

The three different digital standards in North
America are TDMA, CDMA, and GSM (in NY and DC
only AFAIK).  Newer analog phones use at least
some of this, but I don't know much about them.
I'll ignore GSM. There is a fair bit of
commonality in the security of TDMA and CDMA
because of their use of the "Common Cryptographic
Algorithms". I like to think I'm only telling you
things which are in the "Interface Specification
for Common Cryptographic Algorithms Rev B.1".

CAVE is used as a hashing algorithm for a number
of purposes. Starting at the beginning (that's a
very good place to start... shut up Julie) it is
used to verify that the A-key programmed into the
phone is correct; the dealer or whoever puts in
26 digits, 20 of which are the A-key, and the
other 6 are a checksum calculated with CAVE, and
the Equipment Serial Number. (The ESN is always
used by CAVE -- I won't mention it again.) If
they agree, the phone buries the A-key very deep,
never to be seen again. (A_Key_Checksum,
A_Key_Verify)

>From time to time, but not very often, the network
and the phone create "Shared Secret Data"; they
start with a 56-bit random number and run CAVE on it and
the A-key. The resulting 128 bits is split into 
two 64-bit chunks called SSD_A and SSD_B. SSD_A is
used for authentication purposes only, while SSD_B
is used for the generation of keys for other
cryptographic stuff. (SSD_Generation, SSD_Update)

At various times, the base station authenticates
the phone by sending down a random challenge (32
bits); this is hashed by CAVE with some other
use-dependent data (not secret, but intended to
defeat replays) and SSD_A (either current or new,
depending on context) to form an 18-bit
signature. Since you only get one go to get it
right, 18 bits was deemed enough. Again depending
on context, the state of CAVE at the end of this
process may be saved for use later. (Auth_Signature)

The original intent seems to be that
Auth_Signature would happen at the beginning of
every call, but I don't think that is actually the
case. I'm not certain about the telephony end of
this stuff.

Now comes the encryption stuff. At the beginning
of each call, Key_VPM_Generation is called. (VPM
is Voice Privacy Mask.) This uses CAVE,
initialised to the saved state it had at the last
Auth_Signature, and SSD_B, to achieve two things;
it generates the CMEA key (64 bits), and it generates the
Voice Privacy Mask.

CMEA (Cellular Message Encryption Algorithm) is
used to encrypt bits of the signalling stuff over
the air, but never any end-user data. It is used
in different ways by the three standards, as they
have different message formats, but they all
(AMPS, TDMA, CDMA) use it.

The VPM is ignored by analog (I think). It is
constant for the entire call, and is XORed with
every frame for TDMA (cryptographically weak, as
you can XOR any two frames to cancel it out, but
since the frames are heavily compressed actually
getting anything from this is not trivial). CDMA
ignores all but the last 40 bits, which becomes
the initial "long code" for the PN (Psuedo-random
Noise) generator. This is a straightforward LFSR,
which again, is not cryptographically strong in
the face of known plaintext, but again, the input
is heavily compressed. More importantly, though,
for CDMA you need to have the long code before you
can easily sort out the signal from the noise
around it (it was originally developed from
anti-jamming technology), and since it has a
period of days before it repeats, the call will
probably be over...

The conclusion is that neither way of doing it is
truly cryptographically strong, but both are a lot
better than listening to Princess Di call Newt
"Squidgy" on a Radio Shack scanner.

Note, at this point, that neither the phone
industry or the NSA particularly cares about
end-user stuff being strong. The signalling
messages have a 64-bit key used much more
appropriately, and so cell-phone fraud is harder
to achieve.

>Many folks think that "digital = secure" because you can't use radio
>shack(TM) listening devices.  This much is true.  However, you *Can* build
>other devices to listen in, and computer hardware is so cheap it's almost
>feasible -- though I haven't built one...  

Or you can take the bits out of existing phones.

Greg.

Greg Rose               INTERNET: ggr@Qualcomm.com
Qualcomm Australia      VOICE:  +61-2-9743 4646   FAX: +61-2-9736 3262
6 Kingston Avenue       homepage.
Mortlake NSW 2137       35 0A 79 7D 5E 21 8D 47  E3 53 75 66 AC FB D9 45





