From: Alex de Joode <usura@sabotage.org>
Date: Tue, 9 Dec 1997 06:33:59 +0800
To: remailer-operators@anon.lcs.mit.edu
Subject: mail2news gateway (fwd)
Message-ID: <199712082217.XAA03959@basement.replay.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text




Anyone has more info
------

For the past several weeks, a right wing extremist group in Topeka, Kansas has been
tampering with mail2news gateways, including yours, to prevent several people who
oppose their hate agenda from posting to the usenet through your gateway.

The affected gateways include at least alt.revisionism, alt.christnet, alt.politics.homosexuality
and alt.abortion. Posts are returned "user unknown" suggesting that the mailbox may
have been deleted.

This is a group of *fanatics* (Westboro Baptist Church) whose website godhatesfags.com
may be known to you. They also operate several other websites under aliases the best-known
of which is revwhite.bestsites.net. They advocate murdering abortion clinic workers,
homosexuals and blacks.

'Rev White' (actually a member of the Fred Phelps family aka Westboro Baptist Church)
was responsible for conducting a reign of terrorism last year (see "WIRED" magazine,
Jan. 1997) against the irc that included death threats and operator sabotage. Several
in this group are highly skilled in hacking and are willing to spend whatever time
it takes launching denial of service attacks so that some of their opponents' viewpoints
can't be posted. And they're willing to do this everyday if necessary to harass and
intimidate others into silence. Several of them have criminal records in Topeka.


I'm writing to ask you in the name of fair play to re-open these gateways and do
whatever is necessary to keep them open. Better yet, I hope you can kept them in
the act like a Canadian ISP did and report them to

Special Agent Tom Maiorana
FBI
300 U.S. Courthouse
Kansas City, MO 64106
816-221-6100

Thank you for whatever assistance  you can be in this matter.

-- 
  Alex de Joode | usura@SABOTAGE.ORG | http://www.sabotage.org
	Sabotage Internet: Your Internet Problem Provider.





