From: Declan McCullagh <declan@well.com>
Date: Thu, 22 May 1997 05:26:01 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Press Release -- NetFortress Added to GSA Schedule (fwd)
Message-ID: <Pine.GSO.3.95.970521135651.6753A-100000@well.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain




---------- Forwarded message ----------
Date: Wed, 21 May 1997 16:41:29 -0400
From: Gretta Bruce <gretta@dsnt.com>
To: declan@well.com
Subject: NetFortress Added to GSA Schedule



	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE			CONTACT:	Gretta Bruce,  813/288-7388 
	May 21, 1997							or gretta@dsnt.com 

NETFORTRESS  ADDED TO GSA SCHEDULE
Breakthrough Network Security Solution Now Widely Available to Government
Customers

Tampa, FL.... Digital Secured Networks (DSN) Technology announced today that
its advanced encryption product, the NetFortress, has been listed on the
federal procurement schedule of the General Services Administration (GSA).
The NetFortress was added to the GSA schedule of one of DSN's federal market
VARs, Patriot Technologies Inc.

The addition of the NetFortress to the GSA Schedule (#GS-35F-4363D) makes
DSN's breakthrough encryption products widely available to customers
throughout the federal government.  Since the GSA Schedule functions as an
approved, "one-stop shop" for federal purchases, it also will shorten the
overall procurement process for federal purchasers.

"Availability and affordability are the keys for federal buyers," said
Raymond L. Weadock, DSN's President and Chief Executive Officer.
"Purchasing NetFortress products through the GSA schedule will simplify the
overall procurement process, and enable our federal customers to integrate
our superior security solutions quickly and efficiently." 

"The GSA listing for the NetFortress is an important part of our federal
sales efforts," Weadock continued.  "We have seen a significant increase in
federal customers as a result of the recent success of the NetFortress in
tests at multiple government testbeds.  We anticipate that the GSA listing
will enhance the attractiveness of our product in many of these buying
decisions."

The NetFortress stands out from other network security products because of
its unique combination of high-speed data throughput and fully-automated
encryption, authentication and key management technologies. Its
hardware-based design utilizes algorithm-independent encryption at the
network layer (supports IDEA, DES, Triple DES and FEAL), enhanced by dynamic
random key exchanges every 24 hours.  The NetFortress offers superior
security and high-speed performance in an easy-to-deploy, low-cost package.

About DSN Technology:
Digital Secured Networks (DSN) Technology was founded in 1995 by Dr. Aharon
Friedman and Mr. Andrew Savas.  Dr. Friedman, DSN's Chairman and Chief
Technology Officer, invented the breakthrough encryption technology
incorporated into the NetFortress product line.  DSN Technology is a
privately-held company.  For further information, please visit the company
website at www.dsnt.com.  

About Patriot Technologies:
Patriot Technologies, Inc., develops integrated, turnkey Internet solutions
for business, education and government clients world-wide.  With more than
50 years of computer industry experience, Patriot specializes in the design
and implementation of Internet applications for enterprise systems, with
growing concentration in the area of network security.  Key federal clients
include the U.S. Department of State, U.S. Department of Justice, and U.S.
Department of Energy.  Further information may be obtained from the company
website at www.patriot-tech.com or by calling 301/417-9899.    
 
######






