From: M0Rtgman@hotmail.com
Date: Sun, 30 Nov 1997 18:53:32 -0800 (PST)
To: a0001233@aol.com
Subject: Greetings
Message-ID: <>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


                       Make $300.00  per Day
                          NO MONEY REQUIRED
                        TO GET INTO BUSINESS
                     UP to $24,000.00 Line of Credit

1.  There are NO UPFRONT COSTS.  You will be in business with virtually
no money out of pocket. All you do is complete the distributor's application along with our financing agreement.  Everybody is approved regardless of  Credit.  You will obtain a credit line of up to $24,000 to start your own business.

2.  You as the distributor receive a commission of up to $1,000 - once
someone is approved and financed to become a distributor.  The company
pays commission twice a month.  The commission is paid even before the
buyer makes their first payment.
And this is important.  There are never any charge backs!
 
3.  You, as the distributor can sign up others distributors and receive
bonuses of $400.00 to $800.00 per sale from distributors under you.  The
marketing plan offers a very attractive bonus plan.  By signing up 1 new
distributor, who does the same within a month, and this pattern 
continues with each new person only bringing 1 new distributor, there 
would be more than 4,000 distributors in your organization at the end of 
a year.  Keep in mind that you only brought in 1 person each month.  
If each person in your organization sold only one system per month, your 
income would be more than $,$$$,000 the first year!  What if your 
organization only did 1/3 of that?  Would you be excited?

4.  Your market is virtually unlimited. - in fact,  there is no 
competition at this time.

5.  No Accounting.  The company keeps track of everything for you and
gives access to your account on-line using your personal computer.  
Track orders, shipping, commissions due, etc...
 
6.  The Need.  Virtually EVERYONE has had or will have some type pain.
Back Pain?  Migraines?  Arthritis?   PMS? You name it!!  Everyone needs
this product.

7.  The Company. has spent years  developing this state of this product.
This is a one of a kind company  - no huge investments - no money up
from the buyer and there is NO Competition for this type of product.
 
8.  The Opportunity.  What a great feeling!  We help people feel better and that can do so much for a family's peace of mind.  And whether you 
would like to make an extra $1,000.00 a month or have visions of grandeur, this program can satisfy your needs.  The financial bottom line...  There will be many millionaires made in the next few years.

9.  It only cost $0.00 to become a distributor(includes your inventory) 
and for that you receive  everything you need to get started;  forms, full color brochures, and a video tape telling you about the company, its product and marketing plan.

                      Then Call me!!!
                     1-888-220-9850
             I will get you in business today
              with no money out of your pocket!!

                      IMPORTANT!!!
        Be sure to include your  Name,  Phone Number
          and Fax Number Immediate Response!

 
 Send email to magnets@pemail.net  to be remove from our list





