From: James Choate <jchoate@tivoli.com>
Date: Tue, 7 Oct 1997 22:28:57 +0800
To: cypherpunks@ssz.com
Subject: Press Release: Federal Government Teams With Tivoli (fwd)
Message-ID: <199710071421.JAA10998@corp.tivoli.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Forwarded message:
>From Sandra_Lara@brahms2.tivoli.com Tue Oct  7 09:17 CDT 1997
X-Lotus-FromDomain: TIVOLI SYSTEMS
From: Sandra_Lara@brahms2.tivoli.com
To: Yall@tivoli.com
Message-ID: <86256529.004E6A0D.00@notes-brahms2.tivoli.com>
Date: Tue, 7 Oct 1997 09:09:58 -0400
Subject: Press Release: Federal Government Teams With Tivoli
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=US-ASCII
Content-Length: 3758







                  Federal Government Teams With Tivoli To Develop
                              Security Specifications


             Austin, TX, and Baltimore, MD, October 7, 1997 -- Tivoli

        Systems, architect of TME 10, the world's leading systems, network

        and applications management platform, today announced it will work

        with the U.S. Government to establish new security specifications

        for Information Technology solutions.



           Threats to information security have never been more prevalent

        than they are today.  Valuable data is commonly stored within and

        transmitted over corporate and public networks.  The rapid adoption

        of the Intra/Internet for business purposes has magnified the

        challenge of securing this data and has caused an increased demand

        for better methods of establishing IT security certification.



             Responding to this demand, the National Institute of Standards

        and Technology (NIST) and the National Security Agency (NSA) have

        partnered to form the National Information Assurance Partnership

        (NIAP), a joint effort between government and private industry.  To

        help further its goal of developing new certification processes and

        criteria, NIST turned to Tivoli.



           "The NIAP is an important step forward in improving overall

        commercial security," said Gail Daniels, vice president of

        marketing at Tivoli.  "As the introduction of Tivoli's TME 10

        Security Management product made clear some time ago, we have

        solidly demonstrated our commitment to meeting the vast marketplace

        demands for security.  We applaud the NIAP and its efforts as it

        works to identify faster and better methods for certifying security

        products."



             "We are meeting with a broad variety of industry leaders, such

        as Tivoli, to refine the goals of the National Information

        Assurance Partnership and its programs to meet the demands of the

        public and private sectors for timely, efficient and effective

        testing, evaluation, and certification," said Tim Grance, NIAP

        program manager.  "We are determined to make this a collaborative

        effort between industry and government.  With the support of

        industry leaders and their customers, we can do just that."



             Tivoli's TME 10 Security Management is the only product to

        centralize enterprise security management and extend

        mainframe-class access control across distributed

        computing platforms.  Modeled largely upon IBM's RACF, the leading

        access control product for datacenter environments, TME 10

        Security Management was designed for distributed environments,

        including UNIX and Windows NT platforms.



        About Tivoli Systems

             Tivoli Systems provides TME 10, the industry's leading

        solution for end-to-end management of distributed computing

        environments, from mobile computers to mainframes.  Thousands of

        companies around the globe use TME 10 and compatible third-party

        products to reduce the cost and complexity of managing networks,

        systems, databases and applications.  Headquartered in Austin,

        Texas, Tivoli is an IBM Company.  Tivoli distributes its products

        worldwide, through a network of domestic and international sales

        offices, system integrators, resellers and IBM sales channels.  For

        more information, visit Tivoli's World Wide Web site at

        http://www.tivoli.com.



                                        ###












