From: lucifer@dhp.com (lucifer Anonymous Remailer)
Date: Sun, 1 Jun 1997 14:16:56 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Tell the Fans, Not the Players / Was--Re: Rotenberg as the Uber Enemy
Message-ID: <199706010558.BAA18210@dhp.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


At 7:27 PM -0700 5/31/97, Marc Rotenberg wrote:
>I don't mind the criticism if you think we're saying or
>doing something that really is bad for privacy, but
>a bunch of political rhetoric isn't worth much. And if
>you don't think we're not busting our butt to protect
>the rights of people to use strong crypto, you have no
>idea what's going on.

  I think it would be more appropriate to say that you are *selling*
your ass. Excuse me all to hell if my heart doesn't bleed purple piss
for your heroic efforts for the "rights of people" but I would prefer
for all of the time, money and effort people are putting into trying
to get the government *not* to fuck me, when they are going to do so
anyway, be put instead into developing technology to enable myself and
others to route around the damage caused by government.
  If the same amount of money that is spent on lobbying to get the
"least-bad law possible" passed was put into cypherpunk projects, then
before the President proposed crypto regulations he would have to 
decide if it was really important enough to him to put up with the
whithouse.gov site receiving 10 billion emails with "Fuck Clinton" in 
the subject header.

  Most of the "rights" lobbyists are like hostage negotiators who tell
the hostage taker, "We'll let you kill two people without charging you
if you let the rest go."
  Don't hold your breath waiting for me to join in the applause for
your support of legislation compromising my privacy and freedom. As far
as I am concerned, most organizations with the word "Freedom" in their
name are a worse scourge than the politicians. They end up becoming
self-important whores that the government uses to get a showcase stamp
of approval on bad legislation.

  In short, "Tell the fans, not the players." I am certain that you 
can find a forum which will proclaim your sainthood for "almost"
accomplishing something useful, but the cypherpunks list is not it.
  Don't let the door hit you in the ass on your way out.

TruthMonger





