From: buyguy222@erols.com
Date: Sat, 12 Jul 1997 21:23:22 -0700 (PDT)
To: exchange77@aol.net
Subject: Int'l High School Exchange
Message-ID: <65724882_64764806>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Have you ever thought about having a high school student from another
country come and stay with your family?  Chances are you have.  You
may have had a neighbor that "hosted" an exchange student.  Or your
child may have talked about the foreign student that was staying with
a friend of his.  But you may not have known how to bring this
experience into your home.

Pacific Intercultural Exchange (P.I.E.) has been matching high school
students with American host families for more than 20 years.  Since
1975, our experience and expertise has enabled us to bring together
more than 18,000 families from across the United States with students
from around the world.  These students, screened and prepared by our
overseas counterparts, come anxious to share their cultures with
American families, families just like yours.  Imagine sharing your
traditions with a teenager from another country.  What must it be like
to experience an American Halloween for the first time?  Can you
picture the expression of wonder that will fill the face of a child
when he witnesses the spectacle of an American Christmas in your
hometown?

P.I.E., a program designated by the United States Information Agency
and listed by the Council on Standards for International Educational
Travel, is prepared to assist your family in making this dream a
reality.  Our staff is working hard to match students from around the
world with host families in time to start the new school year this
August.  These students, who are between the ages of 15-18 years old,
will attend the local public high school.  Our program provides full
insurance for the students, the students will bring their own spending
money to cover expenses.  We ask only that the host family provide
room and board, and of course, love.  And with a 24 hour assistance
number and local representatives in cities and in towns thoughout the
country, our program will be there to support you every step of the
way.

While we have many traditional two-parent families, single parent
families and couples (both young and retired) without children also
host successfully.  The most important qualification to host is a
genuine desire to share your life with a child from another country.

To learn more about hosting opportunities with P.I.E., please visit
our web site at: http://www.pieusa.org   or Email us directly at
INFO@PIEUSA.ORG







