From: Mark Rogaski <wendigo@ne-wendigo.jabberwock.org>
Date: Thu, 9 Oct 1997 11:55:41 +0800
To: pleontks@hotmail.com
Subject: Re: your mail
In-Reply-To: <19971009023118.27488.qmail@hotmail.com>
Message-ID: <199710090351.XAA11295@deathstar.jabberwock.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text



-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA1

An entity claiming to be THE DUKE wrote:
: 
: Have you ever realized that this list is for straight-up (used loosely) 
: losers?

Didn't you receive the welcome message that specifically said "If you
are not a loser, unsubscribe NOW!"?

This apparent error will be sent to Customer Service right away.


: 
: The government is not planning to murder everyone.  The Government is 
: not keeping aliens in the 'basement'.  The X-Files are not real.  The 
: government is not murdering public figures, and setting-up pore, 
: civilian saps to take the fall.  The only thing that the Government is 
: doing is running our country the best it can.

1) Killing everyone, aside from being a public relations hassle, would
   reduce tax revenues.  Just not feasible.

2) I'm pretty sure Gillian Anderson and David Duchovny get a paycheck from
   some entity, so the X-Files (a TV show) does indeed exist.

3) The government is NOT murdering public figures and setting up porous
   saps to take the fall (spongiforms take comfort in this fact!).  The
   government IS murdering public figures and building widespread support
   for their actions via manipulation of the media.  Hey, we're #1!

4) Unfortunately, the gov't IS running this country the best it can.
   That's what scares us silly.


: 
: All you are doing for the Government, is finding fault and conspiracy in 
: every action.  You are destroying the Government, and are thereby 
: destroying America.

Even assuming that the nature of an entire nation is defined by the
government that holds power, I fail to see how criticism is interpreted
as being destructive against a government based upon the association of
open criticism and discussion with the proper functioning of government.

: 
: By even being a part of this list, you are confirming to the 
: mindlessness that you so hard are trying not to do.

Ahhhh, throwing me off balance through the use of an alien syntax.
Your Jedi tricks will not work on me!


: None of you have my pity.  I spit upon you all.
: 

Thanks for the warm fuzzies.

Doc

- -- 
[] Mark Rogaski                   "That which does not kill me
[] wendigo@pobox.com                 only makes me stranger."

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: PGP for Personal Privacy 5.0
Charset: noconv

iQA/AwUBNDxUocHFI4kt/DQOEQJ1YACgtSiCeQT150hVyBTKeBe6FsSOpsUAoODa
qrc2NZZR/MXTQ/N9BpemMp8f
=kjhz
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----





