From: "Attila T. Hun" <attila@hun.org>
Date: Thu, 9 Oct 1997 02:49:24 +0800
To: cypherpunks <cypherpunks@cyberpass.net>
Subject: Fund-Raisers Allege long term DNC Wrongdoing
Message-ID: <19971008.180342.attila@hun.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

Two Democratic fund-raisers have agreed to testify in 
exchange for immunity that Bill Clinton's presidential 
campaign in 1992 and the Democratic Party engaged in 
an array of questionable activities, a House committee 
disclosed today.

see: http://www.nytimes.com/aponline/w/AP-House-Fund-Raising.html

    the allegations will cover incidents from 1991 to the 
    present including Indonesian, Chinese, and other foreign
    interests; details on Peter Trei; influence peddling;
    a letter with Clinton's name on it for a now SE Asia
    head of state, etc.  Big Macs as legal tender. bacon 
    extra.

    these folks are ready to do some serious singing! 

    the proposed revelators were convicted and sentenced 
    on one of the charges and are apparently willing to sing 
    to avoid prosecution on the rest.

    if they had enough evidence to put them in jail for the
    tip of the iceberg...

    so, when the fat lady sings, and Valhalla incinerates,
    do you think the market will have a confidence crisis?

    too bad stock certificates are electronic; they could 
    bring on the dancing girls and have a tickertape parade 
    with the output of the shredders as the fraudsters run
    for cover.

    Wall Street is going to look like Pol Pot came to visit,
    left a few calling cards, too.

    since clinton has been busy tossing Gore to the sharks, 
    maybe we will have the Grinch as President --he's next 
    in line.

    at least the Grinch will look better in a Santa suit!
    he may be just in time.

    that might be enough to have the whole infrastructure 
    collapse; it might be time to close the bankruptcy 
    proceedings initiated by  Mr. "chicken in every pot" 
    himself on 09 Mar 1933. ironic that his ad her 
    intellectual <g> baggage is being cared for by the
    current occupants of 1600 Pennsylvania --full circle!

    as debtors are absolved when bankruptcy is satisfied
    or liquitdated, do you suppose we can get rid of that
    stupid fringed [admirality] flag and the contract courts?
    maybe even have common law and habeus corpus restored?

    of course, we must remember to hire the Merchant of 
    Venice's lawyer to save us each a pound of flesh. dang,
    I had old William's plot phone number here somewhere.

    naw, that's too much to ask for; the four horsemen just 
    came over the horizon...


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.6.3i
Charset: latin1
Comment: No safety this side of the grave. Never was; never will be

iQCVAwUBNDvTOb04kQrCC2kFAQHm+gP/YEG9GK7jLSy7nJ4p/jQ+C967M4+tPwEs
nBkQZ5qwCYm2M3U2D0UQ/hE3Pcphrfcc8xzCNstIjtM5bS4ZW7zGqQJG8PwZzRc6
QkSaEOigL4USpj208juDTQB4dxg57EGjQTLCLFma3J481zEVWUXcJPsXs9ee2WYR
HC6se+auV1M=
=eCld
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----





