From: Toto <toto@sk.sympatico.ca>
Date: Tue, 21 Jan 1997 15:29:12 -0800 (PST)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: CypherPunks Supports UCE Spammers!
In-Reply-To: <21270787100381@quantcom.com>
Message-ID: <32E56DE6.517A@sk.sympatico.ca>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


CV Communications wrote:
> The following message has been brought to you by Quantum Communications.
> If you would like advertising rates and information, send an email to info@quantcom.com

  I find it interesting that those who control the CypherPunks list
would go to great lengths to censor the free speech of list members,
and yet be perfectly willing to allow those who wish to view all
postings by list members to be subjected to bulk UCE bombing by
those outside the list.
  Am I just blowing smoke in suggesting that this may be just a
big FUCK YOU! to the list members who don't want to 'toe the
line' in regard to list member censorship?
  Is there 'anyone' on the list who 'wants' to receive UCE/Spam?
If there is, I would certainly like to see the posts indicating
their desire to receive it. I am sure that their desire can be
realized beyond their wildest dreams.

  I have no problem with John taking control of his own private
list, in order to control its content and future direction, but
I think that it is rude beyond belief to make great pretentions
of taking actions for 'the good of the list' and yet not lift a
single finger to prevent toad.com from aiding in the proliferation
of UCE/Spam.

  Other lists are able to block UCE/Spam, and make an effort to do
so, without using it as a 'tool', or an 'excuse', to censor the
content of their list by list subscribers.
  It is obvious that toad.com shows no interest in halting their
role as an accessory in the promotion of UCE/Spam, but has the
time and energy to censor their list members.
  The words 'pettiness' and 'bullshit' come to mind, when I view
the way that 'moderation' has been approached on this list.

  If you reply to this post, please do so politely.
  I'm a sensitive guy, and my feelings are easily hurt.

Toto





