From: nobody@huge.cajones.com (Huge Cajones Remailer)
Date: Wed, 7 May 1997 10:15:38 +0800
To: cypherpunks@algebra.com
Subject: AP --> AR
Message-ID: <199705070153.SAA19795@fat.doobie.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Tim May verily saith [paraphrase]:

> I would cry few tears if D.C. got nuked

This will be an historical event of importance comparable to the 
American Revolution and the fall of the Berlin Wall.

Even now Clinton and his organization are pointing weapons of mass terror and 
murder at hundreds of millions of people around the world, and other
leaders of these gangs with weapons too murderous to be called
gangs, these terrorists far too terrifying to the called terrorists,
are pointing their weapons at us.  Far from enemies, the supergang
chieftans contribute to each others' campaigns, turning democracy
into a sick joke.  The fact of friendship between super-terrorist
leaders does not stop them from threatening us with terror and death in 
the name of "defense" against "enemy nations", and by the most
bizarre hypocrisy ever dreamed up by the mind of man, trampling our
rights in the name of controlling "terrorism".  The supreme justice 
will be done when these weapons of mass terror are turned back 
on their wielders and those proximate who have failed to use their   
proximity to bring these ultimate criminals to justice.  Those
innocents who die will be mourned as saviours for the many tens
of millions who would have been murdered by governments in the twenty 
first century, as they have been in the twentieth.

I live about one hundred-fifty miles away from that fetid place, sometimes
downwind.  The risk to my family from the fallout is fairly small
compared to the risks we face every day from these super-terrorists
pointing weapons at us, threatening us constantly, sometimes murdering
us outright when they can cook up a good enough story to justify it
on the evening news.  The money I have to spend to protect 
my family from the fallout, and from any temporary economic setback to
our region, would be earned back in less than a year of not having my 
livelihood sucked away by these mass murdering parasites, and the very lives
of my beloved family, my lovely wife, my son and my two daughters,
threatened by their thug friends and campaign contributors 
overseas.   D.C. may lead the nation in personal crimes, but these
are as nothing next to the crimes it has committed against the peoples
of the rest of the nation and the world.  These self-legalized criminals 
have in this administration alone murdered more children than Charles Manson 
killed adults.

AP may be more targeted, but it just doesn't do the crimes justice.
For that will come AR -- appropriate response. 


"John the Baptist"





