From: Eric Cordian <emc@wire.insync.net>
Date: Sun, 23 Nov 1997 04:05:24 +0800
To: cypherpunks@cyberpass.net
Subject: Junior Jim Bells in Training
Message-ID: <199710281425.IAA00588@wire.insync.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Two more future cypherpunks added to the list of people who will 
someday "McVeigh" Washington, DC.

I'm surprised sending a flame to one of our elected leadership's 
public email addresses is not already a death penalty offense. 

-----

CORDOVA, Tenn. (AP) -- Two 13-year-old boys are charged with sending a
threatening e-mail message over the Internet to Hillary Rodham
Clinton.
 
Contents of the electronic mail message to the president's wife
haven't been released, but U.S. Secret Service agents are expected to
outline them during a hearing Monday in Juvenile Court.
 
The youngsters, whose names have not been released, are charged with
threatening and harassing Mrs. Clinton. They could face a fine,
counseling, community service or detention.
 
Officials say it's unlikely that the president's wife read the
message, which was sent last month.
 
Anyone with a computer, modem and an Internet service provider can
access the White House Web Page and Mrs. Clinton's E-mail address.
 
Her page includes photos, a biography, speeches and instructions on
sending an electronic message.
 
``The Internet is a wonderful tool that not only enables you to better
access information about the White House, but also gives us an
opportunity to hear your ideas and better serve you,'' Mrs. Clinton
says in the welcoming text of her Web page.
 
Senders must include a name, address and other information about why
they're writing. All senders receive an electronic message
acknowledging receipt of the e-mail.
 
It was not clear whether the boys included their own names and
addresses, but authorities say tracing e-mail is relatively easy.
 
``We aggressively investigate any threats or incidents of unusual
interest toward any of our protectees,'' said Steven Rutledge,
special agent in charge of the Secret Service in this area.
 
Cordova is about 15 miles east of Memphis.

--
Eric Michael Cordian 0+
O:.T:.O:. Mathematical Munitions Division
"Do What Thou Wilt Shall Be The Whole Of The Law"
 





