From: skyway@t-1net.com
Date: Sun, 9 Nov 1997 10:48:02 -0800 (PST)
To: skyway@t-1net.com
Subject: Make money From People Watching TV
Message-ID: <199709251239.GCC09047@t-1net.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



                  Just Released

Bill Gates has just joined with Ted Turner and Rupert Murdock to form the
greatest consortium of combined technology and opportunity available today!

Their plan is to take over the digital communications market by setting up
people with DSS satellite equipment at no charge.  

As a representative with our company, you will get paid between $25 and
$100 for "giving away" Digital Direct Satellites, For every person that joins
the business with you  to give away free Digital Direct Satellites, you
will make an additional $55 to $280

We are getting paid for getting consumers set up with a total Digital Direct 
Satellite system with no charge, and building the distribution network of 
the future.  

Imagine how easy it is to give these away!  In the first week sharing it
with friends I gave away 5 not even trying and made an extra $375.  There
are no credit applications for the client to fill out, no mandatory 12
month contracts to join, and no surprises later down the line.  The company
will even upgrade the system later if it becomes obsolete, For Free!

This new union was created intentionally to capture a huge active ongoing
database of consumers.  That's right, consumers who will purchase
continuously from shows like QVC, HSN and many others, and when they
purchase off of the TV you as a distributor will also make a commission off
everything that they order, even while you are out golfing or sleeping, 24
hours a day.  All this from you having them fill out an application that
should take no more than 60 seconds.  There are several other ways to get
paid also, and I have enclosed the actual application for you to review.

Could you imagine Christmas when they are buying like crazy and you are
getting paid up to 30% of what they purchase off the television? I could
and that's why we are here.  Come "profit from the future of television"
and join the fastest growing segment of this company and become a winner
with us.

If you are ready for the greatest business opportunity to come down the
pike, don't miss this one, it is only 2 months old!!!

Give our information hot line a call at 1-800-942-9304 pin #20088


CHECK OUT http://www.millenniumgroup2000.com

--------------------------
Removes to skyway@t-1net.com, put remove in subject, thanks.





