From: Richard Childers <rchilder@us.oracle.com>
Date: Thu, 24 Dec 92 00:28:11 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: 1993 RSA Data Security Conference
Message-ID: <9212240826.AA23973@rchilder.us.oracle.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain




( I'm sitting here, waiting for Sequent to call back after a late-night
  systems crash ... may as well put the time to some good use ... )-:


Looking for computer & communications products that have real public-key
security built in ... maybe interested in enhancing your _own_ products
with encryption and authentication technologies ... or just want to know
what all the excitement is about ?

RSA invites end users, developers and OEMs to attend the

		1993 RSA Data Security Conference

The only conference and expo devoted exclusively to public-key cryptography.

Talk to colleagues, developers, potential customers and experts from the
best and the brightest companies in the security business. Get the real
story on licensing, standards, algorithm strength, and export restrictions.
See the newest public-key products from the biggest vendors in the computer
industry. Attend tutorials on secure application design and developing
with RSA's cryptography toolkits, such as TIPEM and the new BSAFE 2.0.
Find out how others in your line of business are using RSA technology to
differentiate their products and improve their own internal security.

The conference is being underwritten by RSA Data Security, Inc., and is free
to all attendees and exhibitors. Interested ? Registration is extremely
limited, and is first-come, first-served.

Call RSA today and reserve your seat. 415/595-8782, ask for Conference
Registration.

		Thursday January 14th : Conference

	   Friday January 15th : Tutorials & Exposition

		  Redwood Shores, California







-- richard

=====
-- richard childers		rchilder@us.oracle.com		1 415 506 2411
         oracle data center  --  unix systems & network administration

 "If Life is a drama, then, surely, the hardest parts go to the most skillful."




