From: Eric Hughes <hughes@soda.berkeley.edu>
Date: Mon, 16 Nov 92 09:12:39 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: November 21 meeting, 12 noon, at Cygnus offices
Message-ID: <9211161712.AA15115@soda.berkeley.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



ANNOUNCEMENT
============

The Third Physical Cypherpunks Meeting: Project Planning


    It has become clear that lots of code needs to be written, and
that we will be writing it.  Therefore the Third Meeting will be
devoted to project planning and design review.


Date: November 21
Time: 12 noon
Where: Cygnus Support offices
Who: you, and anybody you know who wants to come, and so on.  (Please
    do not post this announcements to public places, but do encourage
    private circulation.)
Positive-Confimation:  Please tell me if you are coming.  Replies to
    hughes@soda.berkeley.edu.


Please, I urge all of you on the list that can make to attend this
time.  This will be a pivotal meeting, since we are deciding
priorities here.  If you want to affect the course of development, you
ought to show up.  If you can't attend, corner someone on the list who
will be there and convince them to represent your position.

Eric Hughes



AGENDA
======

1.  Key exchange.  Bring a diskette with your PGP public key on it.
Bring a machine which can read this diskette.  Bring extra diskettes
to collect keys on and to give out.  Let us not be hypocrites and let
us all know each other's public keys.

2.  Project planning.  We need a list of crypto projects and who is
working on them.  This will help coordination and avoid duplication of
effort.  We need to prioritize the projects to avoid premature
development.  We need to create strategies and design criteria.

3.  Project logistics.  We need to talk about the best ways to do
widely distributed software development in this fairly anarchic
environment.

4.  Design review.  Hal Finney and I have been duking it out behind
the scenes working on a design schema for the next generation
remailer.  I'd like to present the design and have people critique it.

(would be 5.) We won't be playing the crypto-anarchy game this time.
It's not a dead duck, but this time we've got more urgent things to
do.


DIRECTIONS
==========

Here is a reposting of the directions to the meeting place. 
------------------------------------------------------------------
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Better directions to the meeting on Saturday at noon
From: gnu@cygnus.com

Someone asked for better directions, and the original ones were
pretty skimpy anyway.  Here's a better try.

	Cygnus Support
	1937 Landings Drive
	Mt. View, CA  94043

There's no phone service there yet.

Take US 101 toward Mt. View.  From San Francisco, it's about a
40-minute drive.  Get off at the Rengstorff Ave/Amphitheatre Parkway
exit.  If you were heading south on 101, you curve around to the
right, cross over the freeway, and get to a stoplight.  If you were
heading north on 101, you just come right off the exit to the
stoplight.  The light is the intersection of Amphitheatre and
Charleston Rd.  Take a right on Charleston; there's a right-turn-only
lane.

Follow Charleston for a short distance.  You'll pass the
Metaphor/Kaleida buildings on the right.  At a clump of palm trees and
a "Landmark Deli" sign, you can take a right into Landings Drive; this
gets you into the complex from the north.  Or you can go slightly
further along Charleston and take the next right, into a driveway with
a big "Landmark" sign in the middle.  No matter which way you got into
the complex, follow around it until you are on the side that faces the
freeway.  There's a clock tower that rises out of one of the
buildings, to the right (south) of the deli.  Enter through the doors
immediately under the clock tower.  They'll be open between noon and
1PM at least.  (See below if you're late.)

Once inside, take the stairs up, immediately to your right.  At the top
of the stairs, turn right past the treetops, and we'll be in 1937 on 
your left.

If you are late and the door under the clock tower is locked, you can
go to the deli (which will be around a building and left, as you face
the door), cut between the buildings to the right of the deli, and
into the back lawns between the complex and the farm behind it.  Walk
around the buildings until you see a satellite dish in the lawn.  Go
up the stairs next to the dish, which are the back stairs into the
Cygnus office space.  We'll prop the door (or you can bang on it if we
forget).

Or, you can find the guard who's wandering around the complex, who
knows there's a meeting happening and will let you in.  They can be
beeped at 965 5250, though you'll have trouble finding a phone.

Don't forget to eat first, or bring food at noon!  I recommend hitting
the burrito place on Rengstorff (La Costen~a) at about 11:45.  To get
there, when you get off 101, take Rengstorff (toward the hills) rather
than Amphitheatre (toward the bay).  Follow it about ten blocks until
the major intersection at Middlefield Road.  La Costen~a is the store
on your left at the corner.  You can turn left into the narrow lane
behind the store, which leads to a parking lot, and enter by the front
door, which faces the intersection.  To get to the meeting from there,
just retrace your route on Rengstorff, go straight over the freeway,
and turn right at the stoplight onto Charleston; see above.

See you there!

	John Gilmore







