From: tcmay@netcom.com (Timothy C. May)
Date: Fri, 27 Nov 92 00:30:10 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: (fwd) 8052-Based Crypto Engine
Message-ID: <9211270825.AA03153@netcom.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


I just found this is sci.crypt. It may be useful for the "crypto
dongle" folks.

--Tim May


Newsgroups: sci.crypt,comp.arch
Subject: 8052-Based Crypto Engine
From: mmm@cup.portal.com (Mark Robert Thorson)
Date: 27 Nov 92 06:50:33 GMT

Here is the text from a press release which landed on my desk
yesterday:

A new microcontroller from Philips Semiconductors-Signetics designed
for use in smart-card applications is the first to incorporate an on-chip
arithmetic unit optimized to calculate public-key cryptography
algorithms widely used in commercial transactions.

The 83C852 CMOS microcontroller can be embedded in plastic smart cards
and provides 2K bytes of on-chip EEPROM for program and data storage
accessed under control of the unit's CPU.  "The new microcontroller removes
the barrier to smart-card use in applications where data security is a
concern," said Thomas Brenner, product manager.

"There is strong interest in using smart cards, for example, in medical
insurance or remote banking transactions.  But in such applications a
high level of data security is indispensable," he said.  "Likewise
the need for secure access codes is a primary consideration for
customer-card use in the Pay TV and cellular phone markets."

The on-chip arithmetic unit running in parallel with the CPU can complete
a 512-byte calculation in less than 1.5 seconds versus more than a
minute to do the calculation in software.  This high-speed performance
makes it feasible to use highly secure and complex public-key
cryptography algorithms in everyday transactions.

Asymmetric, public-key cryptography uses one key to encrypt and another
to decrypt so that only one of the keys need be kept secret.  The other
can be freely distributed.  The method is thus highly applicable to
commercial transactions.

The 83C852 microcontroller is based on the industry-standard 8-bit
80C51 processor core and uses the same instruction set.  The circuit
incorporates 6 Kbytes of ROM and 256 bytes of RAM in addition to the
2 Kbytes of EEPROM.

The EEPROM provides automatic hardware error correction for single-bit
errors in any of the stored data bytes.  After customer software is loaded,
electronic fuses in the array can be blown to limit access to processor
fetch commands.  The address bus is mixed to provide further protection
against fraudulent access and optical scanning, and a low-frequency
detection circuit can guard against external tampering.

The new processor operates from a single 5-volt supply at clock
frequencies up to 6 MHz (1 microsecond instruction cycle).  All voltages
required during programming or erasure of the EEPROM are generated on chip.
Nonvolatile data retention is for ten years and the circuit offers an
infinite number of read cycles.  The microcontroller includes a power-on/off
reset circuit, and idle and power-down modes.

The microcontrollers can be ordered as a wafer, die on foil or in SO-28
small-outline packages.  The SO package is available for smart-card
readers and can function as an embedded security module in systems such
as restricted access computers.

Wafer and die-on-foil versions of the 83C852 smart card microcontroller
are available now at a unit price of $5.10 and $5.20 respectively in
10,000 quantites.  Units in SO-28 packages will be available in
first quarter 1993 priced at $6.85 in the same quantities.

CONTACT:  Thomas Brenner (408) 991-3552

He's with Philips-Signetics.  I have no affiliation with them, so don't
contact me about this part.  If you call Tom, be sure to tell him you
heard about the chip from MARK THORSON on USENET.  If enough people
do this, maybe they'll give me a free development system.  (On the
other hand maybe they'll tell me "Please don't post any more of our
press releases on Usenet." :-)

--
..........................................................................
Timothy C. May         | Crypto Anarchy: encryption, digital money,  
tcmay@netcom.com       | anonymous networks, digital pseudonyms, zero
408-688-5409           | knowledge, reputations, information markets, 
W.A.S.T.E.: Aptos, CA  | black markets, collapse of governments.
Higher Power: 2^756839 | PGP Public Key: by arrangement.















