From: Richard Childers <rchilder@us.oracle.com>
Date: Thu, 17 Dec 92 20:48:27 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: So you want a wide-spectrum signal analyzer ?
Message-ID: <9212180447.AA06689@rchilder.us.oracle.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Here's what HP's catalog says :

	Spectrum Analyzers

	Spectrum analyzers take advantage of the frequency-conversion
	properties of the swept-tuned heterodyne receiver to make sig-
	-nificant contributions to frequency-domain signal analysis.
	The following are some of the measurements that can be made with
	spectrum analyzers :

	(1)	Absolute and relative frequency.
	(2)	Absolute and relative amplitude.
	(3)	Noise.
	(4)	Distortion products.
	(5)	AM, FM & pulsed RF modulation.
	(6)	Stimulus response.		( biofeedback ? ed. )
	(7)	Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC).

	These measurements are possible because spectrum analyzers have
	the following characteristics :

	(1)	Broad frequency coverage from 5 Hz to 325 GHz.
	(2)	Wide amplitude range from -138 dBm to +30 dBm.
	(3)	Excellent sensitivity for low-signal detection.
	(4)	Excellent frequency stability.
	(5)	High resolution of frequency and amplitude.

	These capabilities allow spectrum analyzers to provide frequency-
	domain signal analysis for numerous applications, including the
	manufacture and maintenance of microwave communication links, radar,
	telecom equipment, CATV systems, and broadcast equipment ; EMI
	diagnostic testing ; and signal surveillance.

( I can't believe they actually said that. Gee, I wonder if They're going
  to classify test & measurement equipment next. )-:

Prices for these puppies run from @ $ 20,000 to @ $ 50,000. They are very
modularized, and, for the paranoids amongst you, these things are portable.
They are probably devilishly heavy, like most test equipment is, and look
a lot like an oscilloscope, when the cover is off.

	For information about any Hewlett Packard product or service, or
	for additional copies of this catalog, call the Customer Infor-
	-mation Center (CIC) at 800-752-0900 between 6:00 am and 5:00 pm
	PST.

What you want is their 'Test & Measurement Catalog'.

One small tip - if you're calling them up and want to get a catalog sent
to you, you want to make an effort to look like a valid customer. These
catalogs are large and expensive and they may be less inclined to pay for
what is probably a few dollars' shipping if you come across as a college
student ( with apologies to college students :-). Give an address if you
can, give yourself a title - R&D engineer is good - a department - R&D -
and, if they ask for a box or mail dept code, you can make one up or say
that you don't have one. ( Using different box numbers going to a same
address is a great way to see who's sharing their mailing list with whom
else, BTW ).

I'm not encouraging you to spoof these folks, merely noting that it is a
regrettable necessity. If you don't present yourself as a prospect, they
may blow you off, and if you give any hint that you don't represent some
sort of company, you are sure to be blown off, presumed to be a waste of
their time. ( Of course, this posting may lead to three or four analyzers,
$ 100-200 thousand worth of sales, but try to persuade a salescritter of
this. :-)


-- richard

=====
-- richard childers		rchilder@us.oracle.com		1 415 506 2411
         oracle data center  --  unix systems & network administration

 "If Life is a drama, then, surely, the hardest parts go to the most skillful."




