From: Anonymous <nowhere@bsu-cs.bsu.edu>
Date: Sat, 4 Dec 93 15:49:33 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: The Tentacles of Cypherspace
Message-ID: <9312042349.AA15576@bsu-cs.bsu.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Newsgroups: talk.politics.crypto,alt.privacy,alt.privacy.anon-server,news.admin.policy,comp.org.eff.talk,comp.admin.policy,alt.conspiracy
From: ld231782@casco.lance.colostate.edu (L. Detweiler)
Subject: Re: CRYPTOANARCHIST INFILTRATION ALERT
Sender: news@yuma.ACNS.ColoState.EDU (News Account)
Message-ID: <Dec04.105319.36526@yuma.ACNS.ColoState.EDU>
Date: Sat, 04 Dec 1993 10:53:19 GMT
References: <dasherCHH3Ey.J1F@netcom.com> <tcmayCHH6MA.Mzw@netcom.com>
Nntp-Posting-Host: casco.lance.colostate.edu
Organization: Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO  80523
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 021193BETA PL3]

Timothy C. May (tcmay@netcom.com) wrote:

: "Medusa" (me, others). I gave up long ago trying to convice Larry
: Detweiler (alias an12070, The Executioner, S. Boxx, The Pervert, The
: Psychopunk, and apparently such pseudonyms) that I am a real person,
: that Nick Szabo is a real person not the same as me, and that several
: other "Tentacles" and "Snakes" are easily verified to be real people
: with real lives.

That's interesting. Perhaps you would like to enumerate these attempts. Here
are a few I can think of off the top of my head.

I asked J.Gilmore to send me his phone number to ask him about pseudospoofing
by Cypherpunk leaders and he told me that he only gave out his phone number
to his friends. I ask other cypherpunks for phone numbers and they call
it an `invasion of their privacy'. I asked Szabo about his claims in 
RISKS and he exploded that I was `digitally stalking him.' I got a message
from a Geof Dale (roommate of a college friend) who said generally he 
could assert that every cypherpunk I had ever wondered about being a 
pseudonym was a `true name' but refuses to give me his phone number to so I
can ask specific questions. Nick Szabo has also resisted simple requests of 
mine to verify that `Nick Szabo' is not a pseudonym. 

I also asked you, a long time ago Mr. May, to state a simple sentence to me in 
the form `I have never posted under the name J.Dinkelacker'. You refused
to do so. You did say `The assertion that I am J. Dinkelacker is too bizarre
to believe.' Ha, ha, and that time I asked you what sites you have ever posted
from, and your personal knowledge of multiple sites, you emailed my postmaster
and said that I was `harassing' you. Oh, and that contained another reference
to my `violent threats'. You seem to be quite sensitive to quotations like 
`death is the ultimate form of censorship.' Hee, hee.

The truth is that every attempt I have made to verify certain identities
has failed and led only to more grisly conclusions, such that Cypherpunks have
gone to the length of registering NIC domains and buying out-of-state phone 
numbers. Do not tell me this is impossible! A businessman friend of mine 
has a local phone number in NY that forwards to Denver! It seems to me
cypherpunks could use this very readily! (My kingdom goes to anyone who 
can provide me with the ability to trace the ultimate destination of 
phone calls in this way, and help uncover the amazing extent of the 
Cryptoanarchist conspiracy! volunteers desperately needed!)

As for what the paranoid ranter and conspiracy theorist an12070 thinks, 
who gives a damn? I'm always amazed at top cypherpunks, supposedly interested
in anonymity, attempting to equate me with this email address.

The cypherpunks have made an art, science, and religion of deceiving others
on the Internet and in the media. I do not consider the leaders respectable.
If they were,  they would have long ago answered my honest questions in
a straightforward manner.

And T.C.May is definitely the classic cryptoanarchist! Nice of you to
keep holding onto your infamous signature (now widely discredited) 
promoting tax evasion, black marketeering, and the overthrow of 
governments.

: Poor deluded Larry takes any such efforts to resolve his delusion as
: _further proof_ of the Grand Conspiracy to drive him crazier than he
: already is. 

Yes, I am quite insane.

: What a strange world the Net is becoming.

No thanks to you.

: --Tim May, a Real Person

Owner of many tentacles. Please list all the sites you have ever posted
from, Mr. May. Ooops, that would be an Orwellian Invasion of your privacy.
A McCarthyist Inquisition. Hee, hee. You cryptoanarchists are so silly. I
am having great fun using your techniques of cyberspatial warfare and
against yourselves. I will not relent until top leadership issues unequivocal
statements on your involvement and knowledge of pseudospoofing. Lies like
that by E.Hughes in RISKS, `I have never posted under any other name than
E.Hughes' obviously do not count, although they may fool some people.

I do thank you, Mr. May, for your posting directly on this topic after my
attempts to date have failed. Perhaps you would like to invite your cohorts
on the cypherpunks list including E.Hughes and J.Gilmore to start a 
cyberspatial attack campaign on this thread the way you infiltrated RISKS
15.27 and 15.28x! I await the fireworks!

The most serious problems with the Cypherpunks may involve deception of
the media. I'm trying to figure this out as we speak. These lies are very
difficult to untangle! volunteers welcome!

oh, BTW Mr. May, when did you decide my first name was Larry and not Lance?
You called me Lance for 10 months or so on the cypherpunks list.

hee, hee. I would give so much to be at the next CA Clique Conspiracy
meeting in a week or two, to see how the leaders masterfully evade all
charges of misbehavior. 

-- 

ld231782@longs.LANCE.ColoState.EDU


Newsgroups: talk.politics.crypto,alt.privacy,alt.privacy.anon-server,news.admin.policy,comp.org.eff.talk,comp.admin.policy,alt.conspiracy
From: ld231782@casco.lance.colostate.edu (L. Detweiler)
Subject: Re: CRYPTOANARCHIST INFILTRATION ALERT
Sender: news@yuma.ACNS.ColoState.EDU (News Account)
Message-ID: <Dec04.110527.69270@yuma.ACNS.ColoState.EDU>
Date: Sat, 04 Dec 1993 11:05:27 GMT
References: <dasherCHH3Ey.J1F@netcom.com> <tcmayCHH6MA.Mzw@netcom.com> <dasherCHH7s6.4rF@netcom.com>
Nntp-Posting-Host: casco.lance.colostate.edu
Organization: Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO  80523
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 021193BETA PL3]
Followup-To: talk.politics.crypto,alt.privacy,alt.privacy.anon-server,news.admin.policy,comp.org.eff.talk,comp.admin.policy,alt.conspiracy

: Ah.  I could say that I've seen Nick and Tim in the same room, but
: that would prove I'm just another pseudonym.  (We're all at Netcom,
: after all.)  So why did I ask the question above?  That just shows
: how subtle Tim is.  (I wish I were that subtle.)

Y'know, after all this hullaballo I still have no idea what Szabo does
for a living. Maybe he would like to post information about where he
works. Just general information that can be verified, nothing that would
invade his privacy. Ooops, I guess all cryptoanarchists believe that any
inquiry into identity (even those who claim to have one) is an `invasion
of their privacy'. Well, we can't get very far in that case. I will just
have to stick `szabo@netcom.com' into my `untrusted pseudonym' file.
hee, hee. Sort of a like a McCarthyist Witchhunt Inquisition list. Those
darn Cryptoanarchists.

My experience with Szabo started only after I read neat mail by Szabo 
stating how he had mastered the art of surreptitious posting from multiple 
sites. Mr. Szabo, could you please elaborate on your techniques? I had to 
guess at what you were accomplishing in RISKS 15.28x (or 15.27, hard to 
remember) because you are certainly not voluntarily going to reveal this 
information, eh? that's the name of the game with pseudospoofing. Also, 
you blew up when I followed up on your claim in 15.27 that many cypherpunks 
had attempted to help me verify their identities. `Which ones?' I asked. 
`What have they done for me?' You got really upset, remember, and threatened 
to stop posting from the name szabo@netcom.com entirely! I thought this 
highly suspicious, but perhaps you can explain it all.

Some of Mr.Szabo's comments and those by another tentacle I have discovered
suggest they are actually running sophisticate software to maintain their
arsenals of tentacles. This is my Holy Grail, to get information on that!
I suspect it was written by E.Hughes. He hasn't said a word on it. Oh, many,
many things for me to wonder about. Please enlighten me. I am just another
scientist in search of the truth, by iteratively refining his sense of what 
is not.

Sooner or later I will have to post an analysis of cryptoanarchist 
disinformation as posted by either Szabo or May (some of the very best
purveyors, IMHO).

-- 

ld231782@longs.LANCE.ColoState.EDU





