From: tcmay@netcom.com (Timothy C. May)
Date: Wed, 24 Nov 93 12:58:52 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Threats from Detweiler
Message-ID: <199311242058.MAA28362@mail.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


>Brian D Williams writes:
> >  Just want to wish everyone a safe and happy holiday.
> > Party on!
>
>Party?  PARTY?!?  How the heck am I supposed to RELAX and ENJOY myself
>when we're all here just WAITING for the FINAL JUDGEMENT to fall on
>our TENTACLES?!?  I'm a BASKET CASE!
>
>--
>Mike McNally


I said I wouldn't comment further on Detweiler unless and until something
changed and new information came to light.

Folks, this is the time to really take care of yourself. "The Executioner"
announced the "time's up" and that more drastic measures are about to
occur. "an12070@anon.penet.fi" is beyond any doubt Larry Detweiler. Many
other folks have posted analyses of why this is so: the use of TeX quotes,
the same vocabulary, the same agenda (against TENTACLES of the MEDUSA), and
even the same arrival times of messages (I get my death threats from S.
Boxx and The Executioner every night around 10 p.m. to midnight, the same
time as Detweiler's rants appear).

I take him seriously. He's deranged. A lot more than just slightly
neurotic, he's transitioned into insanity. His religious rants ("You will
be hung by the neck until dead and then sent to Hell"), his death threats,
his wailings and moanings....not a lot of doubt that he's psychotic.

Me, I'm keeping my guns loaded in case he decides to drive out to
California and end his misery by "cutting off the Tentacles," as he keeps
threatening to do.I consider this unlikely, though. Too far to drive when
he's got closer targets.

The "Colorado Tentacles" should be especially careful, I think. Phil
Zimmermann is currently back on Larry's good side (I quote: "Phil is God"),
but this may not last long. (Hint: Phil Z. was not at all happy with
Larry's rant about Tentacles and his quoting of Phil's comments at that
Colorado talk he gave. If Larry discovers this, as he surely will, Phil may
be back in the boat with the rest of us Spawns of Satan.)

I don't think I'm being alarmist in advising you all to watch out for this guy. 

--Tim

P.S. As long as I'm on the subject, let me again say that I'm not sending
Detweiler any messages at all. I don't know if he's really getting
anonymous messages ("pseudospoofers"), but if he is, they're not from me.
And they never have been.

John Gilmore wrote a very reasonable piece, addressing Detweiler's source
of confusion, and has since been flamed and ranted against. Typical.

And now I'll fall silent on this matter until something new happens. I just
hope it isn't a "Texas Tower" sort of violent encounter. If you've got a
gun, now's the time to make sure it's handy. If you don't have a gun,
consider getting one.

--TCM

--
Timothy C. May         | Crypto Anarchy: encryption, digital money,  
tcmay@netcom.com       | anonymous networks, digital pseudonyms, zero
408-688-5409           | knowledge, reputations, information markets, 
W.A.S.T.E.: Aptos, CA  | black markets, collapse of governments.
Higher Power: 2^756839 | Public Key: by arrangement
Note: I put time and money into writing this posting. I hope you enjoy it.      








