From: "John (FuzzFace/Fast-Eddie) McMahon" <MCMAHON@Eisner.DECUS.Org>
Date: Mon, 3 May 93 16:33:41 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: FWD: Hearings by Congressman Markey
Message-ID: <01GXR0JXRR66000FNB@Eisner.DECUS.Org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Date: 03 May 1993 09:12:58 -0400 (EDT)
From: carl@malamud.com (Carl Malamud)
Subject: Hearings by Congressman Markey
To: announce@malamud.com
Org: Internet Talk Radio

Channel: Internet Town Hall
Program: Special Program
Release: May 2, 1993  (Hearings were on April 29, 1993)
Content: Hearings by House Subcommittee on Telecommunications and Finance

Chairman Edward Markey held oversight hearings on April 29 on the
rights and responsibilities of individuals and organizations in 
cyberspace.  A high tech presentation highlighting issues such as 
encryption, electronic invasions of privacy, fraud, civil liberties and 
computer crime, preceded a panel discussion.

For the demonstration, a world-class team of four engineers from Sun
and the San Diego Supercomputer Center brought in an HDTV, an ATM
switch, an ISDN switch, a Russian satellite dish, a XEROX Liveboard,
a BARCO projector with special video equipment, four Sparcstation
10s, a few Sparcstation 2s, and miscellaneous other equipment.

The purpose of the demonstration was to show that while our current
public policy makes distinctions based on industry, those distinctions
have no meaning in the underlying technology.  A television is a
computer and a computer is a television; a computer is a telephone
and vice versa.  To demonstrate the latter point, Gage and his
associates showed how a new AT&T cellular phone could be changed
by any 13-year old into a scanner.  The demonstration also showed
how DES code could be pulled off anonymous FTP systems in Finland,
yet US industry was unable to export this technology.

The panel consisted of Raymond Kammer, Acting Director of NIST
(National Institute of Standards and Technology), who provided
testimony on technology standard setting issues including the
government-endorsed "Clipper Chip" encryption technology;

Mr. Bruce Sterling, noted science fiction writer on cyberspace and also
author of the non-fiction book, "The Hacker Crackdown: Law and Disorder
on the Electronic Frontier," which discusses computer crime and civil
liberties;

Mr. John Lucich, State Investigator with the New Jersey Division of
Criminal Justice.  Mr. Lucich combats computer and electronic fraud
crimes by electronically infiltrating the underground computer bulletin
boards of the "hacker" and "phone phreak" community; and

Mr. Joel Reidenberg, Professor of Law at Fordham University Law School,
who has studied how personal privacy is affected by telecommunications
and computer technologies and the various privacy protections afforded
citizens of different countries.

We would like to apologize in advance for the very poor audio
quality of this tape.  The hearing room was quite antiquated, and
was full of ungrounded electricity, lots and lots of electronic
equipment, wireless mikes, and PA systems turned up way too loud.
We hope the content makes the mind happier than the ears.

Support for this program was provided by O'Reilly & Associates and
by Sun Microsystems.

ITH Program Files: 050293_spec_01_HALL.au  (Testimony of John Gage) 
                   050293_spec_02_HALL.au  (Testimony of Panel)
ITH Readme File:   050293_spec_HALL.readme (This File)

For information on Internet Talk Radio, write to info@radio.com.

More information on Internet Town Hall will be available shortly.

For a current, partial listing of sites, write to sites@radio.com.






