From: Doug Porter <76244.315@CompuServe.COM>
Date: Tue, 25 May 93 13:14:15 PDT
To: Cypherpunks <cypherpunks@toad.com>
Subject: How to make encryption w
Message-ID: <930525200629_76244.315_CHN82-1@CompuServe.COM>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Until many people use encryption those who encrypt will be 
targets. The biggest barrier to widespread use of encryption is 
that you have to leave your mail package to work with separate 
encryption programs and message files. To overcome this people 
need a messaging system which makes encrypting and decrypting as 
easy as pushing a button.

The package should allow plugging and unplugging encryption 
programs. This lets people make their own technical, ethical and 
legal choices. The package also must be significantly better 
than the mail packages people use now, or they won't switch, and 
therefore won't encrypt.

We've done it: Cyberdesk automates access to cyberspace and 
supports third party encryption programs seamlessly. Today 
Cyberdesk manages CompuServe (both email and forums), MCI Mail, 
cc:Mail (both local LAN and remotely), and The WELL (both email 
and conferences), with more to follow. It runs under Windows and 
includes features such as distribution lists and a spelling 
checker. Cyberdesk is in Beta now and fast approaching release.

All you need is a simple interface to use an encryption program 
with Cyberdesk. This interface is usually just two short batch 
files, one for encryption and another for decryption. In some 
cases it may be a small program. We do not plan to provide these 
interfaces or any specific encryption. In addition to allowing 
people flexibility in their choices, we hope this approach will 
make ITAR irrelevant.

Yep, I'm asking you to support a commercial package without 
monetary compensation from us. You may decide to charge users 
for your interface, of course. We'll give a copy of Cyberdesk to 
anyone who creates an interface for an unsupported encryption 
package.

We have a chance to make it easy, and therefore common, for 
people to encrypt. All we need is the interfaces. Cypherpunks 
write code.

Doug





