From: jdblair@nextsrv.cas.muohio.EDU
Date: Sat, 30 Oct 93 10:09:13 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Macintosh PGP CDEV Idea
Message-ID: <9310301731.AA20087@ nextsrv.cas.muohio.EDU >
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

I have a proposal for a piece of code I'd like to try and put togethor over
Xmas break, and I want to bounce it off of the group to make sure that I'm
not duplicating anyone else's work.

I work mostly on the Macintosh, and this program would be for the mac.  It
would be a CDEV (good 'ol desk accessory) which would contain a smaller
version of PGP.  By smaller, I don't mean less secure, I mean a little
less functionality.  All it would do would sign, encrypt, or decrypt
text files.  By being a desk accessory, it would allow a message that's been
downloaded by whatever means (MS Mail, FTP, Kermit, etc.) to be quickly
decrypted, or to encrypt files for uploading.  The idea is to have a simple,
easy graphical interface on a small floating pallete type window.  Since it
would be a CDEV, it could be used simultaneously with a communications program
even if the machine was running 6.0 w/ the unary finder.  Keys would still be
generated in the full fledged version, but these keys would be accessible by
the CDEV.  A possible later version could also take advantage of Apple Events,
thus becoming a module which other programs could send files to to become
decrypted, or encrypted without worrying about the process themselves.

I've begun poreing through the source code to see how easy or difficult this
is going to be, but first I'd like to make sure that their aren't already
projects like this in development, or if there is any body who would like
to help with the development process.

It must be made clear that I am a beginning C programmer and a beginning
developer of hard-coded Macintosh applications.  I've started to consider
tackling this project as something that will force me to learn both.

Anybody have any ideas, comments, proposals?  E-mail me directly, unless you
think its a discussion that should be posted to the group as a whole.

later,
- -john.

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.3

iQBVAgUBLNJm3qNqtARNqVmxAQGL2wH/dYM7nkpeNbrFniRseZUHEl0X1p4Cn5md
iqPkZWhznhwa+QhcEm6s8RGSq/Kf/uEPsy1C58wVfFbwhMF23WfPhQ==
=car+
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----




