From: jet@netcom.com (J. Eric Townsend)
Date: Tue, 6 Jul 93 12:46:36 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Complete ignorance of any sort of reality on May's part (was We are
Message-ID: <9307061947.AA17712@netcom.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Timothy C. May writes:
 > degrading to women, objectifies them, etc. (ironically, unless of course it
 > is "made by and for wimmin," a loophole added by Andrea Dworkin and her
 > supporters after they discovered their anti-porn crusade in Canada and
 > elsewhere would put an end to Lesbian porn mags like "Yellow Silk"!).

This is complete and utter nonsense.  Tim May has no clue as to what
he talks about. What's worse, it smells of homophobia.

In no particular order:

- Dworkin has never called for the banning of porn.  I've read most of
her books, and she even goes out of her way to say she's not calling
for any sort of censorship.  She *does* push for 'victim
compenstation'-style legislation.  (How this sort of legislation
interacts with constitutional rights is beyond my keen, save a few
decisions I've read about 19th century property rights in Louisiana. :-)

- I've heard Dworkin come down just has hard on lesbigay porn, if not
harder than, as she does on het porn.  Her old housemate John
Stoltenberg (sp?) is as noxious as she is on this point.

- "Yellow Silk" is not a lesbian porn mag.  It's a very lame het
softcore mag. If you'd like to see *real* lesbian porn (some of which
pisses off a fair portition of the feminist and lesbian communities)
find "On Our Backs" (started by Susie Bright), "Venus Infers" (started
by Pat Califia, women-only SM), or "Girljock" (sort of a
preppie/athelete/lesbian (not dyke :-) porn mag).

- Last I heard, there was no need to capitalize 'lesbian'. None of the
dykes/lesbians I know capitalize it, unless it starts a sentence.
Residents of Lesbos (the true 'Lesbians') might disagree, however.

Tired of white het male computer geeks talking nonsense about anyone
who threatens their place in the power structure,

--
jet@netcom.com -- J. Eric Townsend -- '92 R100R: "CLACKER"
"Either what you've said is so vague that it's meaningless or I disagreee
 with you completely." -- Tom Maddox




