From: tcmay@netcom.com (Timothy C. May)
Date: Mon, 26 Apr 93 20:14:28 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: A correction, and another motive for Clipper
Message-ID: <9304270314.AA12553@netcom3.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Jim Bidzos of RSA informs me that Capstone does in fact use public key
methods, and that his company will presumably receive royalty
payments.

(I remember this being discussd, now. The government itself has
royalty-free access to the various public key patents, so I
understand, but corporations selling equipement using the patents would
presumably have to negotiate their own deals.)

On another matter, I saw in the April 19th issue of "Network World,"
the headline on the front page: "Clinton security plan hints of Big
Brother," with the subtitle: "Clipper Chip would let government
eavesdrop on encrypted voice and data communications." The article is
by Ellen Messmer.

Along with the usual quotes from the White House announcement came
this curious admission from an AT&T manager when asked why anyone,
especially a criminal or terrorist, would use a tappable phone when
alternatives exist. 

---begin quote---

"A criminal probably wouldn't use it," said Mike Agee, marketing
manager for secure products at AT&T, adding that the Clipper Chip is
for the rest of the world.

---end quote---

Now I've heard several explanations for Clipper, ranging from buying
market share to the stupidity of criminals (i.e., criminals _could_
buy non-Clipper alternatives under the current plan, but in practice
they're too stupid to).

Assuming non-Clipper encryption remains legal, why Clipper?

It just occurred to me that perhaps the government is primarily
interested in tapping its *own* phones! Not necessarily as part of a
paranoid conspiracy plan, but because of the graft and bribery cases
that keep coming up, such as the Defense Department scandals uncovered
by Operatin Ill Wind a few years back.

Ditto for "leaks" from offices.

The Powers That Be may have looked at the coming age of untappable
phones and concluded that at least they make sure they could tap the
phones of those in government and defense contractors and suppliers,
who will be the only ones actually _required_ to buy the
Clipperphones. (Under the precise wording of the White House
announcement; we can all still worry that this move is preparatory to
wider restrictions.)

Lest you think I'm becoming like David Sternlight and looking for the
silver lining in every government move, I'm only floating this as a
minor wrinkle on why the Clipperphones may be being deployed so
quickly.


--Tim 


-- 
..........................................................................
Timothy C. May         | Crypto Anarchy: encryption, digital money,  
tcmay@netcom.com       | anonymous networks, digital pseudonyms, zero
408-688-5409           | knowledge, reputations, information markets, 
W.A.S.T.E.: Aptos, CA  | black markets, collapse of governments.
Higher Power: 2^756839 | Public Key: PGP and MailSafe available.





