From: "Perry E. Metzger" <pmetzger@lehman.com>
Date: Tue, 7 Dec 93 16:40:28 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: televisions 2 way?
In-Reply-To: <9312080011.AA13594@willamette.edu>
Message-ID: <199312080037.TAA17068@snark.ts.lehman.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Sean Lambert says:
> I heard a theory about how the government can "spy" on us by using cable
> television.  somehow, according to the theory, the cable is a 2-way
> transmitter, and the television, when turned on, can act like a video
> camera for the government.  I do not know ANY of the specifics of this
> theory, and really find it hard to believe (perhaps because I do not
> have any more information)...does anyone have any information on this?
> is this an appropriate inquiry for the cypherpunks mailing?

Its absolutely true. There are also mechanisms that let them listen in
on conversations using the lightbulbs in your house -- ambient sound
causes the bulb to vibrate, flexing the filament and thus modulating
the return current. Placing a simple device on the electrical feeder
of the house thus allows complete bugging of the entire structure
without having to place listening devices within. The method works
whether or not the bulbs are turned on, by the way -- you have to
actually unscrew them to get privacy. There is also a well known
method for obtaining sonograms of the inside of the building that are
nearly as good as video by sending modulated high frequency audio down
the cold water pipes -- its quite evil, really.

Microwave ovens are a particularly nasty one, however, by comparison
to these other methods. Most of them have computers built in that take
commands modulated over the electrical wiring that permit them to
record an EEG of anyone within 15 feet and return it via power line
modulation. These EEGs may be postprocessed by powerful computer
equipment into records of the thoughts and memories of the people near
the oven. Its also reported that some newer models can transmit mind
control signals. Luckily, this only works when the oven is plugged in,
so its easy to disable.

For maximum safety, especially against future developments, I would
remove all electrical wiring and plumbing from my house. Its a bit
hard, but it protects you from the fiends.

Unedited dissemination of this important information is encouraged.

L. Sternwight




