From: crunch@netcom.com (John Draper)
Date: Wed, 23 Jun 93 13:14:53 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: An Awsome party coming up
Message-ID: <9306232015.AA18970@netcom4.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Greetings Cypherpunks!!

  We are looking for folks with laptop computers with both MS-DOS and
Mac compatability to participate in an upcoming fun event to take place
at Pyramid lake in Nevada.  The dates are 16th thru 18th of July,  where
a table will be set up for those with laptops.

  Our purpose and goals are to make copies of PGP available to those that
don't have net access,  generate PGP keys,  sign keys,  and hand out
literature to those folks interested in cryptography and the Cypherpunks
cause.

  The event itself will offer a great time to those attending,  as there
will be camping, swimming, and raving,  as well as other happenings to
make a total memorial weekend.    The event costs $30 for the weekend,
and the money goes towards the Western Shoshone and Paiute Indian nation,
so the money goes to a worthy cause.

  I am trying to set it up so that those bringing laptops and who are willing
to sit at the table for a period of time,  copying disks,  generating PGP
keys,  signing keys,  etc will NOT have to pay the $30.

What we need from Cypherpunks:

  ** Make up some brocures and hand out material describing the interests
     of the Cypherpunks.  These can be created using PageMaker,  or other
     page layout software,  and can be xeroxed for handouts.
     
  ** Volunteers who have laptops (Both Dos and Mac,  and possibly others)
     who can make them available for key generation,  PGP distributions,
     etc.    They would NOT have to let their laptops out of their sight,
     but just be there for a specific time to answer questions,  and
     do what was previous described.
     
  So,  do we have any volunteers willing to participate in this rather
unusual venture?

  For those people out of the area,  and who might be planning a trek out
to the west coast,  this might be a great time to come.

  Pyramid lake is out in the Nevada Desert,  there is NO shade,  so tarps
and other camping equipment would also be necessary and desirable.    Anyone
with
RV's, Campers,  etc would be really useful for the ocassion.    So be looking
forward to a great time.   Bring your family and kids,  I'm sure they will
enjoy the happenings,  as there is also swimming,  horse back riding,  fishing,
and all of the other camping activities.  Brings lots of water,  ice,  and
drinks.

Please contact me,  and I'll try and put it all together.  Right now,  I 
need to collaborate and work on the wording of the brocure.

Thanx
John D.




