From: Hal <74076.1041@CompuServe.COM>
Date: Mon, 26 Apr 93 09:24:51 PDT
To: Cypherpunks <cypherpunks@toad.com>
Subject: REMAIL: Anonymous postin
Message-ID: <930426161700_74076.1041_FHD66-1@CompuServe.COM>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


The message forwarded by Mark Ringuette was apparently posted to sci.crypt
by using a cypherpunks remailer followed by a mail-to-news gateway.  To
recap on how to do this, put
 
::
Request-Remailing-To: sci-crypt@cs.utexas.edu
 
then a blank line at the front of your message, and mail to one of the
remailers (Karl Barrus posts a list every month).  For more security and
in-practice untraceability, use one of Karl's scripts to set up a chained
request with encryption.  By bouncing your message around the country like
this, decrypting at each stage, you get much better security than with just
one hop.
 
Change "sci-crypt" in the address above to the name of the newsgroup you
want to post to, replacing the "." in the name with "-".  (No, I don't know
how you post to a newsgroup with a "-" in it.  Maybe it just works.)
 
I notice that the Comment field I put out on remailed message cautioning
that it is coming from an anonymous remailer did not get passed through the
mail-to-news gateway software at utexas.  This leaves little clue about
where it came from.  It does make it pretty clear that you can't reply to it
since it comes from "nobody@alumni.caltech.edu".
 
As an aside, I'd like to encourage people not to use hal@alumni.caltech.edu
so much and to use one of the others more.  I have one at
hfinney@shell.portal.com which I think may be more immune to political
pressure.  Unlike the alumni account, I'm paying for this one, which should
give me some clout; and also, I remember hearing that at the hackers
conference the head of Portal offered some support to the idea of anonymous
remailers, so I'm hoping that management won't be quick to shut me down when
people complain.
 
Hal
74076.1041@compuserve.com
 






