From: jazz@hal.com (Jason Zions)
Date: Tue, 28 Dec 93 14:37:43 PST
To: m5@vail.tivoli.com (Mike McNally)
Subject: GPS and security
Message-ID: <9312282234.AA04489@jazz.hal.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


   I speculated that the
   government may in fact have designed the satellite systems so that
   they could be told to do several things in case of national emergency:

   *	Shut down (probably possible; they may have actually mentioned
   this on the show).  Problem is that lots of friendlies may grow to
   rely on the data for life-critical things, like guiding commercial
   airliners.

It's worse; the military relies on GPS. During the Gulf War large numbers of
combat vehicles could rendezvous with high accuracy and no radio contact in
the dark of night; staggeringly important in limiting fratricide as well
(though not as well as one might have liked...)

   *	Shut down normal transmission and begin strongly encrypted
   transmission.  No mention of this; apparently, the satellites were
   originally designed with some sort of weak system that made the data
   difficult to use for high-accuracy purposes, but that's been defeated
   (by the FAA or someone contracted thereto).

   *	Enter into a bogus-cleartext with encrypted subchannel mode,
   where the plaintext is slyly made to be wrong, but using some
   subchannel encrypted "good stuff" is still available.

Well, this sounds like the "selective availability" (SA) capability, which
still exists and has in fact been turned on. It is defeatable, but only
under certain circumstances (see below).

GPS is a clock-based system; by talking to a constellation of satellites (I
think the minimum is 4, with 5 being desired and 6 being best) and munging
the timestamps received from them, GPS systems can compute their location to
a degree of precision related to the precision of the clocks. SA essentially
truncates a few bits off the low-end of the time stamps and makes them
available in an encrypted form. Without the key to decrypt the low-order
bits, you get location information to within a couple hundred meters or so;
with the low-order bits, within about six feet.

During the Gulf War, the US military was unable to get enough military GPS
receivers (i.e. ones that could decrypt the selectively-available data).
Instead, they bought commercial over-the-counter GPS receivers and turned SA
off. As soon as they got enough SA-enabled receivers, they turned it on.

SA is defeated by something called Differential GPS.  Basically, a ground
station at a fixed location constantly computes its position via GPS,
computes the difference between the GPS location and its known correct
location, and broadcasts the correction factor. A differential-capable GPS
receiver computes its location via GPS and then applies the correction fac-
tor from the nearest differential station. These corrections are obviously
of decreasing accuracy the farther you get from the fixed-position station,
but you can correct for that to some degree once you have an estimate of the
direction and distance from your location to that of the differential
broadcaster; apply corrections iteratively until they converge.

The requirement, of course, is that you be someplace near a differential GPS
station. These stations are maintained by the US Coast Guard and obviously
exist only where there is navigable water (and certainly not everywhere,
since they take time and money to build).

I'm curious if anyone has attempted to crack the encryption used in
selective availability; although Differential GPS solves my most important
issues (coastal navigation) it's be nice to be able to use a handheld GPS
receiver in the middle of Rock Mountain National Park or some such and still
locate yourself on the bloody maps with some precision.

Jason




