From: hfinney@shell.portal.com (Hal Finney)
Date: Sun, 28 Nov 93 20:14:41 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re:  Traffic analysis and file size
Message-ID: <9311290413.AA27849@jobe.shell.portal.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Scott Morham asks about how well file sizes are preserved by encrypted
remailers.  Generally speaking, in creating a nested encrypted remailing
request, at each stage PGP will attempt to compress the input, then encrypt
it, which preserves its size but adds a block to the beginning of about
the size of the public key (typically 100-150 bytes), then makes it ASCII,
which increases the size by 1/3, then adds a small header block of 50 to
150 bytes or so.

Since the compression is ASCII-encoded encrypted text, the best it can do
is to "undo" the ASCII encoding or compress by about 1/4, but I don't know
if it actually does that well.  Probably it compresses by somewhat less.
So generally each chain will add a few hundred bytes and scale the size of
the message up by probably 10 or 20 percent.

I think that this will probably allow pretty reliable matching of incoming
and outgoing messages on the basis of size alone, at least, more reliable
than I would be willing to count on to prevent attacks by this means.

Scott also suggests using .zip compression at some point, but this isn't
likely to help much since encrypted files look random and are basically not
compressible.

What we have talked about here is adding random padding to change the file
size.  Because encrypted files do look random, you can generally pad them
with random bytes pretty easily and undetectably.  This depends somewhat
on the file format but it is basically easy.  I wrote some perl scripts to
pad .pgp public-key-encrypted files undetectably.  The extra bytes are
ignored when the file is decrypted.  The scripts aren't really production-
quality since they just use perl's built-in random numbers.  Good random
numbers should be used.

Hal
hfinney@shell.portal.com




