From: tcmay@netcom.com (Timothy C. May)
Date: Mon, 1 Feb 93 10:53:30 PST
To: deltorto@aol.com
Subject: Eudora mail reader for the Macintosh
Message-ID: <9302011849.AA21976@netcom.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



(I wrote this as a reply to Dave Deltorto, then realized there may be other
Mac-using cypherpunks for whom this might be useful.)

Meta-message to list: I propose a brief AGENDA ITEM on mail readers like
Eudora and the DOS versions, as part of our understanding of what mail
readers are out there and what may need to be hacked to incorporate PGP.
RIPEM, etc. I'll speak very briefly on Eudora, and others can speak on
others readers. How's this sound?

Dave Deltorto writes: (part of some e-mail we exchanged....nothing
sensitive, so I hope Dave doesn't mind me quoting it and distributing it to
the List.) BTW, Dave is referring to my "Top Ten Reasons I Don't Use PGP"
article I sent out to this list a few months back and which I forwarded to
him recently.

>Listen, in case I didn't mention this, I DID enjoy your Top Ten spoof, and I
>sort of figured that by now you had the MacPGP (do you have the .73 beta?).

I have the 0.5.3 version, which seems to work OK. Eudora (the mail reader
program) has made reading PGP messages much easier--I automatically get all
my mail, cut the PGP messages into the clipboard, insert them into Vantage
(a text editor), rename them "message.asc", close the file, then tell
MacPGP to decrypt them. Seems to work, and is a whole lot better than
having to zmodem each file individually! (In case you're wondering, the
combination of NETCOM, Emacs, etc. would not allow me to cut-and-paste into
or out of the editor, hence the need to zmodem the files back to my home
machine. Eudora takes care of all of this!

I wrote, and then Dave replied:

>>>By the way, I've been using "Eudora," an automated mail delivery and
>>>retrieval system for the Mac. If you're interested, I can show it to you at
>>>the next Cypherpunks meeting.
>
>Yes, I am very interested in Eudora. Could I use it to automatically gather
>my Internet mail off the Well? I don't know anything about it, so that may be
>a dumb question, but I look forward to meeting you at the next meeting where
>you can clue me in and show it to me.

I'll bring a copy of Eudora 1.3b119 to the next meeting (Feb. 13th). I had
to ResEdit some stuff to make it work with NETCOM, with the help of a
friend. Stuff like login name, location of the POP server, and expected
responses. Getting it to work on the W.E.L.L. may take some hacking, but
I'm sure it'll work.

(NETCOM is a wonderful service, though, and you should seriously consider
using it instead of the W.E.L.L....fixed monthly fee for unlimited use. If
you're within one of the many POPs (points of presence, not to be confused
with the "Post Office Protocol" cited above!) in the Bay Area (or L.A.,
Seattle, Portland, Sacramento, etc.), the connections are free. Also, you
get 5 MB of storage for files, buffer space, etc., instead of the measly
W.E.L.L. allotment.)

-Tim
 


--

Timothy C. May               | Crypto Anarchy: encryption, digital money,  
tcmay@netcom.com        | anonymous networks, digital pseudonyms, zero
408-688-5409               | knowledge, reputations, information markets, 
W.A.S.T.E.: Aptos, CA       | black markets, collapse of governments.
Higher Power: 2^756839 | Public Key: waiting for the dust to settle.







