From: Eric Hughes <hughes@soda.berkeley.edu>
Date: Sat, 27 Feb 93 11:33:57 PST
To: cypherpunks-announce@toad.com
Subject: March 13 cypherpunks meeting
Message-ID: <9302271922.AA00053@soda.berkeley.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Announcing:  The First Annual Post-CFP cypherpunks meeting.

The next physical meeting of cypherpunks will be March 13, 1993, at
the usual time, noon, in the usual place, Cygnus Support Offices.

This is one day after CFP-93, the third Conference on Computers,
Freedom, and Privacy.  CFP is an increasingly important conference
concerning an only slightly broader spectrum of privacy issues than
are normally discussed on the cypherpunks list.  At the first CFP
conference I met David Chaum, who awakened a latent interest in
cryptography.  This awakening led indirectly to the formation of this
list.

There will be people from all over the country there.  We have set the
date of our meeting so that they could attend.  We are, in fact, going
to give out an open invitation there.

I would urge all of you who have been considering making a trek to
come to one of these meetings to do so this time.  And while I do not
expect Dorothy Denning to show up (although she would be welcome, if
uncomfortable), I do expect some surprises.  Please surprise me
yourself.  If you need a place to stay, ask on the list.  I myself am
already putting up some friends before the conference.

For that matter, I would urge all of you to come to the conference
itself.  If you can't afford to go, just remember that while the
sessions you have to pay for, the hotel bar you do not.  A word to the
wise is sufficient.

Thank you all.

Eric
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

MEETING

Date: Saturday, 13 March 1993
Time: 12:00 noon
Where: Cygnus Support Offices, Mt. View, California


SCHEDULE

Meeting 12-6
Dinner 7-?


AGENDA

We have Arthur Abraham's talk on hash functions left over from last
time, which was interrupted by a photo shoot.  Scott Collins intimated
that he'd have more results on random numbers.

With the opportunity given to have so many people there, I'd suggest
that discussion of cryptographic infrastructure would be appropriate,
together with a goal setting session.

Please discuss this on the list.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

DIRECTIONS

	Cygnus Support
	1937 Landings Drive
	Mt. View, CA  94043
	+1 415 903 1400   switchboard
	+1 415 903 1418   John Gilmore

Take US 101 toward Mt. View.  From San Francisco, it's about a
40-minute drive.  Get off at the Rengstorff Ave/Amphitheatre Parkway
exit.  If you were heading south on 101, you curve around to the
right, cross over the freeway, and get to a stoplight.  If you were
heading north on 101, you just come right off the exit to the
stoplight.  The light is the intersection of Amphitheatre and
Charleston Rd.  Take a right on Charleston; there's a right-turn-only
lane.

Follow Charleston for a short distance.  You'll pass the
Metaphor/Kaleida buildings on the right.  At a clump of palm trees and
a "Landmark Deli" sign, take a right into Landings Drive.  At the end
of the road, turn left into the complex with the big concrete
"Landmark" sign.  Follow the road past the deli til you are in front
of the clock tower that rises out of one of the buildings, facing you.
Enter through the doors immediately under the clock tower.  They'll be
open between noon and 1PM at least.  (See below if you're late.)

Once inside, take the stairs up, immediately to your right.  At the top
of the stairs, turn right past the treetops, and we'll be in 1937 on 
your left.  The door is marked "Cygnus".

If you are late and the door under the clock tower is locked, you can
walk to the deli (which will be around the building on your left, as
you face the door).  Go through the gate in the fence to the right of
the deli, and into the back lawns between the complex and the farm
behind it.  Walk forward and right around the buildings until you see
a satellite dish in the lawn.  Go up the stairs next to the dish,
which are the back stairs into the Cygnus office space.  We'll prop
the door (or you can bang on it if we forget).

Or, you can find the guard who's wandering around the complex, who
knows there's a meeting happening and will let you in.  They can be
beeped at 965 5250, though you'll have trouble finding a phone.

Don't forget to eat first, or bring food at noon!  I recommend hitting
the burrito place on Rengstorff (La Costen~a) at about 11:45.  To get
there, when you get off 101, take Rengstorff (toward the hills) rather
than Amphitheatre (toward the bay).  Follow it about ten blocks until
the major intersection at Middlefield Road.  La Costen~a is the store
on your left at the corner.  You can turn left into the narrow lane
behind the store, which leads to a parking lot, and enter by the front
door, which faces the intersection.  To get to the meeting from there,
just retrace your route on Rengstorff, go straight over the freeway,
and turn right at the stoplight onto Charleston; see above.

See you there!

	John Gilmore






