From: bart@netcom.com (Harry Bartholomew)
Date: Thu, 16 Sep 93 11:54:43 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Government agenda on cryptography
Message-ID: <9309161853.AA13914@netcom5.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


    From the National Information Infrastructure Agenda for Action:

       Action:  Review privacy concerns of the NII.  The IITF has
         developed a work plan to investigate what policies are
         necessary to ensure individual privacy, while recognizing
         the legitimate societal needs for information, including
         those of law enforcement.  The IITF has also developed a
         work plan to investigate how the government will ensure that
         the infrastructure's operations are compatible with the
         legitimate privacy interests of its users.  

         Action:  Review of encryption technology.  In April, the
         President announced a thorough review of Federal policies on
         encryption technology.  In addition, Federal agencies are
         working with industry to develop new technologies that
         protect the privacy of citizens, while enabling law
         enforcement agencies to continue to use court-authorized
         wiretaps to fight terrorism, drug rings, organized crime,
         and corruption.  Federal agencies are working with industry
         to develop encryption hardware and software that can be used
         for this application.

    MUST reading I suggest. Sources for FTP:

   The package is available in ASCII format through
         both FTP and Gopher.  The name of the file is
         "niiagenda.asc".  Access information and directories are
         described below.

         FTP:
                 Address:  ftp.ntia.doc.gov
                 Login as "anonymous".  Use your email address or guest
                 as the password.  Change directory to "pub".
                          
                 Address:  enh.nist.gov
                 Login as "anonymous" using "guest" as the password.

                 Address:  isdres.er.usgs.gov
                 Login as "anonymous". Use your email address or "guest"
                 as the password. Change directory to npr.
         
                 The package also may be present in a self extracting
                 compressed file named "niiagend.exe".  Remember to
                 issue the binary command before "getting" the
                 compressed file. 

    I also have it here on Netcom in /u4/bart/public with read
    permissions set I think so it can be copied.





