From: Anonymous <nowhere@bsu-cs.bsu.edu>
Date: Fri, 31 Dec 93 08:52:05 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Off the deep end (PUNCH!)
Message-ID: <9312311650.AA21374@bsu-cs.bsu.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Well, although Perry Metzger has expressed a disdain for re-postings
of Detweiler's rants to this list, I think that a little, subtle
reminder should occasionally be posted just to remind us all how
deranged this fucker really is.

Enjoy.

-------- cut here ------------


Newsgroups: talk.politics.crypto,alt.privacy,comp.org.eff.talk
From: ld231782@keller.lance.colostate.edu (L. Detweiler)
Subject: ancient torture techniques
Sender: news@yuma.ACNS.ColoState.EDU (News Account)
Message-ID: <Dec31.090735.79631@yuma.ACNS.ColoState.EDU>
Date: Fri, 31 Dec 1993 09:07:35 GMT
Organization: Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO  80523

Geoff Dale (plaz@netcom.com) wrote:

: > Congratulations! If you repeat anything frequently enough, 
: > people begin to believe it.
:
: That seems to be your strategy. It doesn't work when you so consistantly
: undermine your credability with rants, tho.
: So stop posting and this little bit of net.history will soon be forgotten.

Hello world, I am not proud of everything I have posted `out there' lately,
but I am even less proud of the ugly depths and grotesque deformities
I have seen in certain black corners of the Internet lately, and the
apalling complacency with which you all view it. The skeletons
have not only fallen out the the closet, they have danced around us and
punched us all in the face. My own letters on the subject are an attempt to
shock you from your silent complacency and `accessorizing'. 

What happens when trust breaks down? What happens when people respond 
to their own posts? When they misattribute writing? When they don't care 
who is behind email addresses, or deceive others about them? When they 
post multiple messages from different addresses? 

Imagine that every one of my posts came from a different address.
What is to prevent me? My honesty? My integrity? What if I am a 
cyberanarchist? Would I be horrified or delighted at these embezzlements 
of trust? By the squirming and writhing of my victims underneath my 
crushing onslaught?

* * * 

I was reading a book about ancient torture techniques. (Actually, it was
about something else, but some paragraphs on the subject crept in from
obvious relevance.) 

The Roman soldiers had invented some of the most grisly torture and execution
techniques the world has ever seen, perhaps the most humiliating and heinous
punishments known to man. One that I was reading about was called 
`Circle of Eight'. A blindfolded prisoner stands as Roman soldiers 
(enthusiastic volunteers?) circle him and take turns punching him in the 
face. They take the blindfold off, and ask him, who hit you? And if the 
prisoner fails to name the person, the game continues, they dance in their 
delight, circling at a faster, more dizzying rate, and pummel harder.

What is the point of all this? I don't have a major point, except to 
suggest that this is one of the most evil abominations of humanity I can
imagine. And that it is shockingly identical to the mentality that a 
cyberanarchist has in hammering others with his fake email identity 
arsenals. 

Medusa is delighted to punch the blindfolded victim in the face with
her dizzying circle of tentacles. Guess who it is! Ooops, you're wrong,
sorry. PUNCH. What? No, N.Szabo is a real person. PUNCH. Pseudospoofing
is immoral? nah. PUNCH. N.Szabo is my roommate. PUNCH. Lies are 
liberating. PUNCH. cypherpunks have never pseudospoofed. PUNCH. 
especially the leaders. PUNCH. and everything in the media is true.
PUNCH. especially what we say. PUNCH. and our leaders are the 
greatest of all. PUNCH.

See the blood dripping on the ground, see the hideous disfigurement of
the victim's face.

* * *

I am posting this many messages to drive home the point that
the Cyberanarchists are not really noble at all. They are like Roman 
Soldiers who will hit you when they see that you are blindfolded. Otherwise,
they hide in the shadows like all the rest of the cowardly slime at the 
putrid, dank recesses of humanity. And unless someone takes out the 
trash, we're going to have to get used to the smell. But where will we 
go to eat, then?

go ahead, tentacles, water down my words with more trash. dilute and warp 
my message beyond all recognition. that's probably all we read is, anyway.
all of history is just a big lie set out by people who aren't interested
in the truth, but in fooling us to assuage their egos. the Bible, of course,
is the worst of all.

* * *

I read one author who suggested that as part of Christ's torture before
literally bearing his cross, he had been subjected to the Circle of Eight.

Cyberanarchists, who are you punching? What was that saying of Christ's, 
as you do unto the lowest of men, you do unto me?

I think the question you have to ask yourselves is, if a victim is 
blindfolded, does God hear his screams? 

What if the soldiers are athiests?

When does the Circle of Eight stop, anyway? When the victim is 
unconscious? When he is dead? 

``NEXT!''

-- 

ld231782@longs.LANCE.ColoState.EDU





