From: nowhere@bsu-cs.bsu.edu (Chael Hall)
Date: Thu, 4 Mar 93 14:14:13 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: ANNOUNCE/ANON:  Posting in alt.cyberpunk
Message-ID: <9303042210.AA22524@bsu-cs.bsu.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



     For those who do not read alt.cyberpunk, I found an interesting
article that I think is applicable to cypherpunks.

Chael Hall

--- Begin forwarded message

Newsgroups: alt.cyberpunk
Subject: internet and security
Message-ID: <C3AJrG.LpB@dartvax.dartmouth.edu>
From: strake@coos.dartmouth.edu (strake)
Date: 3 Mar 93 02:18:51 GMT

a request to all you folks out there.

I am thinking of doing a research type paper on the internet and security.
More to the point, I'm interested in how the internet users themselves view
security. If internet and security strike some cord in you, please send me
some email about your babblings.

My goal is to get a general impression about how the people
who use the net feel about the security measures that exist or may soon exist
and whether or not they are a help or a hindrance to the net and its use.

For the rest of you on a more specific note, here are some questions that
hopefully will get your creative juices flowing.


Do you think the internet is secure?

What types of security measures would you like to see put in place?

In an ideal world, how would security work? What would be protected?
What kinds of measures would you need to gain access to the information?

Should the DES be the standard for encryption?

Do you think access should be restricted? (period, should all information just b
e free?)

Do you like people who make anonymous postings?

Should a human have _any_ part of the anonymous servers?

What do you think of Hackers? Do you like them? Are the a benefit?

What do you think of the NSA, FBI, CIA, and everything else government related?

If you knew how to hack into your bank account and change the amount of money yo
u had, would you?



If you have an answer to one (or all or anything in the middle) of these
questions please email me back with your answer. Help me pass my classes
and graduate. *grin*


--
strake@dartmouth.edu
its not pop, its not coke, its not soda. where I'm from its a 'soedaher'





