From: crunch@netcom.com (John Draper)
Date: Fri, 23 Apr 93 12:25:46 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Press,  and a spokesperson and other things..
Message-ID: <9304231925.AA23225@netcom4.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



In regards to the name of the group...   I think that we should organize
and establish a Public relations group NOT associated directly with
the cypherpunks,  but with well established people in the industry
that can and should put on a professional image to the public and
be a spokesperson representing us as a whole.    In this sense,  the
name of "cypherpunks" as our group is totally irrevelant.   As far as
I'm concerned it's just the name of the mailing list,   but I sort of
like that name myself,  and have on ocassion used it in public
interviews etc.

It is publically known that I'm involved with the MacPGP effort in the
cause to put forth my programming skills to better serve the Cypherpunk
community.   But I decline to be a spokesperson for several reasons I'll
take up privatly with anyone who wants to know.    With my bad rap,  and
somewhat controversial past,  I feel that someone else can better serve
the cypherpunk community in this PR effort.

Just yesterday,  I talked with Craig Larson who has offered some PR
suggestions,  and he says that he might drop by the cypherpunk meeting
between 4 and 6 pm.    In the meantime,   I'll try and elaborate on
some of his PR ideas with the group.

First off,  Craig suggests having 3 or more press briefings seperated
by about two weeks,  with emphesis on making it very newsworthey,  and
by professionals attening,  such as the cypherpunks spokesperson,
perhaps RSA folks,  FBI folks,  and other people on hand to ask the
right questions that should bring out these issues to the public.

I've delt with the press before,  and all they are interested in is RAW
NEWS,   and anything else to sell the story.   In other words,  "money
talks and bullshit walks".    NEWS!!  is the key....   The more controversy
we can generate (And important issues) the better we will be able to
get the word out to the John Q.  Public.   There are TV interviews,   
background stories,   and lets not forget recent news of matters
not so related to cryptography,  such as hacker busts,   and other
newsworthey things related to the computer industry that CAN be
somewhat related and tied to cryptography.   The goals of the press
meeting would be to get the word out to as many concerned citizens
as possible with an emphasis on ANALOGYS such as "Clipper technology
is like giving the police the keys to your house"  or something like
that.

JD




