From: "L. Detweiler" <ld231782@longs.lance.colostate.edu>
Date: Mon, 6 Dec 93 01:33:16 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Hello again!
Message-ID: <9312060932.AA07009@longs.lance.colostate.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Woops, I had sent off all my mail tonite before I read E.Hughes'
interesting messages. It was quite a surprise to see that he had sent
me anything. He's generally very quiet under the `E.Hughes' name.

Anyway, there have been a few questions by people on this list. `why
should we care about pseudospoofing?' the answer is that you should be
sure that your leaders aren't doing it. What if there were sensitive
projects that were volunteered by outsiders, and someone told them that
they were doing it all wrong? Well, if it were just some nobody, maybe
nobody would care. Frankly, I don't care as much if people `out there'
are involved in there little pseudoanonymity schemes, as long as they
stay away from me.

But if E.Hughes says, under a fake identity, `hey, you don't know what
you are doing, you are doing it all wrong' -- how does that promote
trust in your group? how will you ever get anything accomplished? you
have accomplished rather little when you look back on your months of
bickering on this list. I once tried to get the whistleblowing
newsgroup, and I think this is precisely what happened to me -- it
conflicted with what your leaders wanted to accomplish, so they flamed
me with their tentacles. But I am not prone to give in to intimidation
where I am committed, as everyone has noticed by now!

Furthermore, what if your leaders are doing this behind the scenes?
Promoting their pseudospoofing techniques among many without your
knowledge? Why would you possibly submit to that kind of an
environment? What if they have made an *art* *science* and *religion*
of deceiving each other and their followers with their tentacles? I
think this is something that no respectable person would have anything
to do with it. Either your leaders are not pseudospoofing, not
respectable, or my belief that pseudospoofing is poisonous is
incorrect. Take you pick! So far everyone believes either that
pseudospoofing is no big deal, or that I am crazy. Aren't you just a
*little* uneasy the way your leaders have responded to my charges?
Don't you care at all? Don't you want to know the truth? Don't you
recognize evasion when you see it? I am just a wimpy T.Cruise with
nothing but my mouth in front of me and my fake soldiers behind me,
saying (Few Good Men?) ``I want the TRUTH'', with your decorated leader
Jack Nicholson saying, ``YOU CAN'T HANDLE THE TRUTH'' ... when are we
going to get to the ``YOU'RE GODDAMN RIGHT I ORDERED THE CODE RED!''

Mr. Hughes, Mr. May, Mr. Gilmore, answer me *one* question truthfully,
and I will go away.

How many different email addresses have you posted and emailed under?
(Include remailers and anon.penet.fi) What #?

For the record, I have posted under 2 -- anon.penet.fi, and
ld231782@longs.lance.colostate.edu.

Again, you don't have to sacrifice the privacy of any tentacles in
revealing this information. But an answer like `1' is obviously a lie,
and anyone who attacks me for attacking a lie I have no respect for. Do
not send me mail attempting to influence me.





