From: kelly@netcom.com (Kelly Goen)
Date: Sun, 21 Feb 93 18:09:47 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Political and social action, cypherpunk assisted (fwd)
Message-ID: <9302220208.AA04250@netcom.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Forwarded message:
> From gnu@toad.com Sun Feb 21 12:27:13 1993
> Message-Id: <9302212028.AA25645@toad.com>
> To: farber@cis.upenn.edu, gnu@toad.com, barlow@eff.org
> Cc: kelly@netcom.com
> Subject: Political and social action, cypherpunk assisted
> Date: Sun, 21 Feb 93 12:28:10 -0800
> From: gnu@toad.com
> 
> Kelly, I think you should also add some more mainstream groups like
> talk.environment, talk.politics.misc, alt.politics.homosexuality,
> alt.society.civil-liberty, alt.society.civil-disob,
> comp.society.privacy, alt.privacy, comp.org.eff.talk.  This is not
> just a tool for conspirators, anarchists, and revolutionaries, though
> the FBI and NSA would love to pigeonhole us that way.  It's for anyone
> who wants to exercise their Constitutionally-protected rights to
> privacy or anonymity.
> 
> 	John
> 
 I agree completely John, in fact I have had a talk with Phil Z. and
have his best wishes in this area, one thing
that has come up recently is putting together COMPLETE
packages of Binaries of PGP for various platforms, along
with hopper email preparation scripts, programs to email
or otherwise get news to a newsgroup, or emailing list.
minimal configurations for the amove.
EASY installation scripts and/or instructions to install
and verify correct installation of same,
perhaps a Video could be prepared that could be distributed
throught the community cable channel network
or borrowable thought a public for the community station
could be arrange, the main thing I see is spreading this tech far and
wide first to the groups that have the most need of it and
then to the mainstream. A foreign site at present is best for the
complete packages because of US ITAR regulations, although
uncoercible platforms such as toad.com and hosts in the edu
domain could also be perhaps a contribution to the situation.
I see the CLEAR and  present DANGER if we dont start treading this
new legal ground quickly and establish legal precedent by action
and litigaion if need be. Our rights will be abridged and condensed so fast you
wont even be able to reply "thank you Mr. Webster" before
 people start assuming a Maxmillian code of Justice instead of the one granted
us by the US Constitution. I see Privacy and
anonymity as Inalienable rights reserved to the people under the 9th amendment.
 I also view the ITAR regulations classifying crypto as a weapon/munition
as putting crypto under the purview of the second amendment
under the right to keep and bear arms. I also hold that expression of free
thoughts feelings and the tangilbe manifestion of same
known as software to be forms of protected speech under the first amendment.
 As I am a member of society who always will test the letter of the law 
n these areas to the limit, I now realize that the socalled
crypto-war with the federal government has to have a broad base
of public support before we are adjudged criminals by the govt controlled
press in this country and have our rights trampled under like
the way all groups have had theirs trampled under by the govt.
I for one dont wish to wake up in some morning with some
federal agents gun stuck up my nostril such as happened in the
sundevil raids. RICO seizures are currently illegally used by
the federal lackeys to totally circumvent
all the protections of the bill of rights and to acquire
shamelessly computer hardware for local, state and federal law
enforcement agencies. Can you say THEFT!!.. Can you say Violation of the
4th amendment of the US Constitution!!
Oh DAMN!! I went and got passionately political again... OK
I will shutup... for now... besides I have to answer
all of this fascinating e-mail I seem to be getting...
And work on this document...
     cheers
     kelly




