From: R.Tait@bnr.co.uk
Date: Wed, 28 Jul 93 02:58:02 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Help needed in the Cypherpunks cause!
Message-ID: <199307280955.25386@bnsgs200.bnr.co.uk>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Hi all,

I've been on  this list for  quite a while  now, mostly  listening and
learning, but with the occasional post now and then. What I've learned
is that it's important for us all (even outside the US) to "spread the
word" (as it   were) and let  people know  how important Privacy,  and
associated  areas are to us.  In fact, I saw a   program on UK TV only
yesterday in which Ann Winterton (an English Member of Parliament) was
advocating that  the UK Government  allow British Telecom to routinely
(ie,  without a permit/warrant etc)  tap and  intercept people's phone
calls. Without  a warrant!!! Her excuse  was that we needed to capture
child pornographers,  who were downloading them  using the PSTN. Yeah,
right!

Anyway,  my call for   help is this. I've  got  to write my Final Year
thesis  starting in September, and since  we've got free reign on what
we say and  do, I'd like to take  the subjects of Encryption, Privacy,
Digital Cash (etc, etc, etc), and write a *decent* and *truthful* (ie,
a Cypherpunks view, *NOT* the media's,  or the Government's) thesis on
what it's all about, what it's not, how it all affects us, and what we
can all do. My intention is that  when it's all finished, I'll release
it into the public domain, and produce a Postscript file to be used as
an "intro" to the Crypto-world.

And since I'm no expert, and I want to make this a document showing us
in  a good (and honest) light,  it would be nice  if I could have some
suggestions as to the content, layout and format of the document. I've
prepared a  few questions, and if you  all wouldn't mind sparing a few
moments of your time in answering them, I'd be very grateful...

1, Do you see the need for a document such as this?
2, If not, how come?
3, What would you like to see covered in such a document?
4, What, if anything, would you like *not* to be covered?
5, How would you like it to be worded (ie, technical/beginner etc)
6, How would you like it be laid out?
7, <insert your comments/questions/flames here>

Thanks in advance for your comments!

-Peace from London!
Rick M. Tait <ricktait@bnr.co.uk>
Network Management Systems, Bell Northern-Research (Europe) Ltd.




