From: crunch@netcom.com (John Draper)
Date: Thu, 15 Jul 93 12:23:04 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Final flyer
Message-ID: <9307151923.AA24672@netcom4.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Thanx to the wonderful fast action on the part of the Cypherpunks and SFRavers
I now have the final copy and flyer printed up to hand out at raves,  and other
social events.    The flyer has following information...


Keep "Big Brother" out of your face


If you have a computer and modem,   use Electronic mail,   or keep personal 
data on your computer,  it may soon be illegal for you to protect it by 
using personal encryption programs,  if our snoopy government has their way.

Last April,  the Clinton Administration proposed a new Encryption chip 
called the "Clipper chip" which permits authorities with a "Master key" 
which unlocks encrypted data.  Would you trust your authorities with a 
key to your house?   Of course not!!

Ravers should take note that our group of "Freedom fighters" called 
"Cypherpunks" are making important tools available you can use now 
to protect your sensitive mail and data that cannot be unlocked using 
this so called "Master key" scheme.

The Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF),  and Computer Professionals 
for Social Responsibility (CPSR),  are important lobby organizations 
dedicated to keeping our government in check and preserving our 
privacy. They need your support.   Please contact them at address below.

Our goals are to get the word out,  and get as many people as possible 
to use simple encryption tools like PGP (Pretty Good Privacy) so our 
government cannot make their use illegal.  This program PGP, is 
available on PC-DOS, Macintosh, and UNIX computer systems free of 
charge.  Look for PGP distribution booths at future raves,  and 
spread the word.

For more information,  contact:

CPSR
PO Box 717
Palo Alto, Ca. 94301
(415) 322-3778
cpsr@cpsr.org

EFF
1001 G. Street NW suite 950 E.
Washington DC, 20001
(202) 347-5400
eff@eff.org


Cypherpunks
cypherpunks-request@toad.com

--- end ---





