From: "L. Detweiler" <ld231782@longs.lance.colostate.edu>
Date: Sat, 27 Nov 93 20:24:19 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Vinegar, Honey, Flies, and Snakes
Message-ID: <9311280421.AA21626@longs.lance.colostate.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Someone told me in email that they respected what I was doing in
attempting to elicit a public statement by top Cypherpunk leadership on
pseudospoofing, but that I was going about it in the wrong way. He
said, `you can catch more flies with honey than vinegar.' I told them
that I don't think I had caught *any* flies with *either* honey or
vinegar so far, after many weeks of public and private email! `What do
you recommend to catch snakes?' I asked. He didn't say yet. I could
certainly use some advice. I admit I've been winging it for the past
few weeks. Nevertheless, he does have a point about honey vs. vinegar.

So, I'm offering this neat opportunity and prize to all the spiffy
cypherpunks who would like to help me out. The premiere goal is to get
the CA Leadership to Come Clean on their personal knowledge and
involvement in pseudospoofing. There are many ways to go about this.
You can send mail to

gnu@toad.com, hughes@soda.berkeley.edu, tcmay@netcom.com

Of course, I've tried this to no avail, but maybe you have a better
reputation among them than I do. I regret I have kind of shot mine in
their eyes after the fanatic persistence in exposing the
pseudospoofing. One refused to even talk to me on the phone to allay my
fears about pseudospoofing.

You might also ask the journalists who have covered the cypherpunks if
they know anything about the promotion of deception, or would be
interested in helping uncover a hoax or a conspiracy. (I have a few in
that area, but they are `silent and deadly' and it will take awhile.)

Another interesting technique is that of exposing the tentacles and
snakes on other lists. Challenge them in their claims of real identity.
For example, N.Szabo claimed in RISKS that he knew about others trying
to help me learn of their true identities. When I challenged him on
Who, he got upset and stormed off the Internet. He posted a message
here stating that I was `stalking' people with `true names'.  Hee, hee!
This is typical behavior of a tentacle. Unfortunately, I haven't yet
been able to track the Medusa behind this tentacle, but these things
take time. The Szabo tentacle really pisses me off because he got into
a prestigious journal that should be free of this kind of treacherous poison.

But I have to give you some incentive, don't I? Well, what about fame
and glory? Can't you just imagine that great NYT and Wired headline,
INGENIOUS HACKERS EXPOSE FRAUDULENT CYPHERPUNKS, with your picture in
glossy color? talking all about the amazing history of the
investigation, all the amazing contortions by top cypherpunks, etc.?

The situation is that even the Leaders need an incentive to Come Clean.
Well, I am prepared to offer a very valuable prize for this. I am
personally aware of one of the most masterful and dramatic stories of
intrigue and pseudospoofing that exists in the Real World. It involves
a radio team and Nazi Germany in WWII. I guarantee you, this is PRIME
material that head cypherpunks can drool over. Your `True Name' SF by
whats-his-name will not even come close to this kind of sheer
spectacular nailbiting epic saga.

So, Mr. May, Mr. Hughes, Mr. Gilmore, I promise to personally type in
by hand this very long story from a very obscure niche, serialized over
many or maybe a week, but that will have you salivating at the
masterful deceptions. I am talking about the #1 Master Pseudospoofed
Hoax that beats War of the Worlds and the Cypherpunks List as a sheer
masterpiece of sensitive and strategic deception. I mean, supposedly
the timing of D Day was affected by this espionage. Wow, you can't wait
to read this. But you have to help me out! I can't do anything without
some kind of Positive Signal on your part. Please, don't deprive
yourselves and your followers from seizing this fantastic opportunity!
Time is running out! Act now! This is a Limited Time Offer!

This is my Honey Offer. I've tried the Honey before with top
cypherpunks in email, but it just doesn't work. I mean, there's only so
much you can do with psychopunk flies. I have plenty of Vinegar left.
Lord knows, there are still plenty of Snakes.




