From: Brad Huntting <huntting@glarp.com>
Date: Wed, 7 Apr 93 15:04:02 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Security Dynamics
Message-ID: <199304072203.AA02670@misc.glarp.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



The MIS department where I work has started using "Secure-ID" cards
made by Security Dynamics Inc for access to their MVS systems.
After listening to a presentation by marketing droids and technical
support from Security Dynamics I had these impressions:

	The cards are programmed at the factory with a "random"
	seed.  They have an internal clock, and a lithium battery.
	They use a proprietary encryption algorithm to encrypt the
	time of day using the internal seed and display it on an
	LCD display using about 6 or 7 digits.  The display updates
	itself every 60 seconds (this frequency is adjustable when
	you order the cards)

	An authenticating host will have the cards seed, as well
	as the cards "clock offset" (the time the card was seeded,
	and the clock reset).  The user has a 4 digit PIN (personal
	identification number) known only to the host (and of course
	written on the back of the card :-).  PIN numbers must be
	unique since they are used to identify the user.  At login
	time, the user is asked to type in her PIN, as well as the
	number currently displayed on the card.  This is checked
	by the host, and if it's correct the user is authenticated.

	If used on a regular basis, the authenticating host can
	detect clock drift and will adjust it's database accordingly.

	Cards can be used across multiple "realms", but this
	nessesitates trusting the cards shared key with each host
	that wants to authenticate that card.

	The cards are timed to deactivate after some time interval
	(again, this is an option) the default lifespan is 3 years,
	they can go as high as 4 or 5, but after that, the battery
	isn't reliable.

You can probably imagine some of the problems with such a system.
First and foremost in my opinion, it uses an unknown proprietary
algorithm which is a closely guarded company secret known only to
them and anyone which a dissasembler.  Obviously such an algorithm
has never undergone any serious scrutiny.  Most respectable
researchers (outside of Ft Meade) do not need to disassemble code
to find material to write papers on.

Second, the cards are programmed at the factory, and the user has
no way of reseeding them.  The company actually touts the fact that
they have all the card info for all customers on file, and will
gladly send you encrypted tapes or floppys if you loose you database!
Of course they will only talk with one designated contact at your
site, and they will only ship materials to that person.  In all
fairness if your a big client, and you insist, they might be
compelled to tell you how to seed the cards, and give you a batch
of "raw" cards.

When I mentioned how ludicrous it was for us to trust their internal
security, they made some lame noises about employees being "bonded".
In other words, they have established plausible denyability and
are "out of the loop" should your security data be compromised.
I was a little furious.

Lastly, their expensive.  Something on the order of $60/card in
quantities of 250 to 500 for cards that last 3 years and change
every 60 seconds.  Programmable DES devices (used by DEC and others)
which employ a challenge response system are about one third as
much.

I came away from the talk with a bitter taste in my mouth.  As I
understand it (and please correct me if I'm wrong) they are, at
this point, one of the largest companies "crypto card" companies
in the world.  This is, to say the least, unsettling.

If you want more info, they're Colorado office is at:

	Security Dynamics
	5299 DTC Boulevard
	Suite 500
	Englewood, CO 80111
	Phone: +1 303 773-6519




brad




