From: Marianne Mueller <mrrm@well.sf.ca.us>
Date: Wed, 19 May 93 14:43:05 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Consider "Working Assets" phone service instead of AT&T
Message-ID: <199305192142.AA25642@well.sf.ca.us>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Another option to AT&T long distance service is something called
Working Assets.

Quoting from their bill,

"Every time you call long distance with Working Assets, a percentage
of your charge goes to nonprofit action groups that are working for a
better world.  These donations are made by Working Assets at no extra
cost to you.

...

For a list of groups Working Assets has funded in the past, send a
self-addressed stamped envelope to

        701 Montgomery Street #400
        San Francisco, CA 94111
...

You automatically get a discount of up to 15% on interstate calls,
depending on your monthly calling volume.  And you automatically get a
20% Friendship Discount (indicated by and "F" on the bill) when you
call another member of the Working Assets Long Distance network.

...

Working Assets is the only phone company to sign the Valdez
Principles, committing ourselves to environmental responsibility."

(The bills are on 100% postconsumer recycled paper, unbleached, and
they plant 17 trees for every ton of paper they use.)

You can contact Working Assets by calling 1-800-788-8588 (let's face
it, a phone company is going to know your number) or write them at the
above address.

If you tell them I recommended you, I get $10 off my bill, but you
don't have to do that.  I'm recommending them because I think they are
a great option to AT&T, not because I want $10 off my bill!

I chose Amnesty International as the nonprofit that gets donations
when I make long distance calls.  I think Working Assets has dozens of
nonprofits you can choose from.  And hey, celebrity endorsement: Ralph
Nader goes around urging everyone to sign up with Working Assets.

Cheerios,
Marianne





