From: remail@tamsun.tamu.edu
Date: Wed, 3 Nov 93 02:47:22 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: TRW PhonePrint (fwd)
Message-ID: <9311031045.AA09792@tamsun.tamu.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


FACT SHEET

What is TRW PhonePrintTM ?

TRW PhonePrintTM  is a system designed to block illegal access to cellular 
networks by cellular "counterfeiters" who use stolen telephone identification 
numbers.

How Does It Work?

Each cellular telephone emits unique signal transmission characteristics - an 
electronic version of a human fingerprint - which cannot be duplicated.  These 
characteristics are matched with the mobile identification number (MIN) and the

electronic serial number (ENS) of the phone to develop a unique pattern for 
each legitimate customer, TRW PhonePrintTM  uses sophisticated signal analysis 
hardware and software to analyze and file the patterns belonging to legitimate 
customers.  When a caller attempts to access the network, the system compares 
incoming patterns to those on file.  If the patterns do not match the call is 
immediately terminated.

Who Benefits?

Cellular telephone fraud costs the industry up to $300 million annually.  TRW 
PhonePrintTM  benefits cellular operators and customers by:

	o Terminating fraudulent calls before they can access the system
	o Eliminating the need for legitimate users to change phone numbers or 	  
	  codes.
	o Increasing the capacity of the network by eliminating the flow of illegal
traffic.
	o Building customer confidence in the security of the cellular network.

When Will It Be Available?

TRW PhonePrintTM  is currently being tested by PacTel Cellular, Los Angeles. 
Testing 
is expected to be completed in early 1994, and the system will be made
available to 
cellular carriers nationwide.

The Company

TRW, headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio, is strategically focused on providing
products 
and services with a high technology or engineering content.  






