From: Clark Reynard <clark@metal.psu.edu>
Date: Mon, 15 Nov 93 05:26:02 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: CIA Admits Timothy C. May Son of Sam!  Pix at eleven!
Message-ID: <9311151336.AA20239@metal.psu.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


[ASCII crap straight from Fidonet deleted.]

[Obligatory obscenity deleted, as I have not the time
 to flame this moron.]

[Obligatory crypto reference:  I hear the CIA has new
cybernetic cryptography hardware; they're experimenting
with cyborging, and evidently they stole this poor
fool's brain; for obvious reasons, the experiment 
failed and we can conclude the existence of a vast
CIA coverup by the total lack of public denials
of the conspiracy.

Another telling point is that there is absolutely no evidence
of a conspiracy, which attests to the great
skill with which they covered it up.

In addition, Timothy C. May, if his middle name
is in fact Cornelius, despite his lack of trying
to hide this obvious clue; is obviously at the
helm of the conspiracy to present himself as
a countercultural figure, when in fact the letters
of his name, when added in strict numerical order
and with vast compilations of material only known
to the devout studier of Sumerian metaphysics;
in fact equals the hideous number 93985676!
93985676, as any fool knows, is the Number of
the Beast when read as Hittite cuneiform
writing!

Obviously, as someone of my great knowledge can
tell at a glance, Timothy May, the CIA and the
so-called "cypherpunks," now revealed to be, in
actuality Satanpunks, devoted to the overthrow
of Mom, Apple Pie, and Everything Decent.

May they burn in everlasting Hell for their
blasphemous, devious, internetworked conspiracy
of hatred, and may they pay for their perfidy
in multilevelled torture chambers filled with
mud, stinging acid and vipers!

Now you'll pardon me.  I must go.  I hear a knock
at the door, and it could be the dreaded Eric
Hughes himself, who is STEALING MY THOUGHTS
with MICROWAVES!]
----
Robert W. F. Clark            PGP Key Available Upon Request
rclark@nyx.cs.du.edu
clark@metal.psu.edu




