From: jim@Tadpole.COM (Jim Thompson)
Date: Fri, 15 Oct 93 11:40:10 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: NAFTA event
Message-ID: <9310151835.AA03297@chiba.tadpole.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Appologia to those of you who've seen this already.  Carl invites you to
send email.  I'd suggest some verbage about export controls for crypto.

Jim

From: carl@town.hall.org
Subject: White House NAFTA Event 
Org: Internet Multicasting Service
Channel: Internet Town Hall

On Wednesday, October 20, the White House is showcasing the
benefits of the North Amercian Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) to
American workers and the American economy.

President Clinton and Vice President Gore will highlight 
American-made products which are currently sold in Mexico.  
The range of products, and the number of American workers who 
make them is enormous and the White House would like to present 
to the American public the benefits of increased trade with our 
neighbors.

The White House has invited over 200 companies and their employees
to bring their products to the West Lawn of the White House.  
Sun Microsystems is one of the companies invited and they 
would like to use this opportunity to highlight the computer industry 
in general as a crucial technology for our global economy and in 
particular to highlight the significant role the Internet will 
play in fostering trade in the global marketplace.

Sun Microsystems, in conjunction with several other companies,
will put two Sparcstations on the lawn of the White House.  Using
a Persoft Intersect Remote Bridge wireless 2 Mbps spread-spectrum 
radio link, we will link the LAN on the White House lawn to our 
facilities in the National Press Building.  That network will in 
turn use the MFS Datanet national fiber backbone to link us at 10 
Mbps to Alternet, our IP service provider.

The workstations on the White House lawn will feature a variety
of Internet applications such as NCSA Mosaic for X, Gopher, and 
other applications that highlight the scope and diversity of the 
global Internet computer network.

Here is how you can participate!  Send your electronic mail to:

	nafta@town.hall.org 

The mail will be collected and will be available on the screen 
as well as being printed out on a laser printer.  

Tell the President, the Vice President, members of the Cabinet, 
members of the Congress, and the national media what you think 
about NAFTA. Help demonstrate to this important audience that 
the Internet is an important forum for the discussion of public 
affairs.  If you feel the need to flame pro or con on this subject, 
feel free to cc: nafta@town.hall.org in your discussions to the list.

For general information on the Internet Multicasting Service,
send mail to info@town.hall.org.









