From: hiscdcj@lux.latrobe.edu.au (Dwayne)
Date: Fri, 8 Oct 93 10:19:23 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: distributed autonomous networks
Message-ID: <9310081716.AA13288@lux.latrobe.edu.au>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Hi guys,
   well, after reading through the backlog of spread spectrum stuff, I was
surprised to read about the radio-network-on-a-board (Julieboard) article
that someone posted. A couple of us here in Australia have been kicking
around the idea of a cheap network, running via repeaters in _very_
small boxes tossed all around a city, which would be indestructible through
sheer numbers (a la the arpanet).
   So: anyone got any ideas, schematics, information?

The main idea is a huge number of small, low-power and CHEAP nodes which
would handle through traffic which anyone with a radio modem could tap into,
with the nodes disguised and placed in extremely hard to get to places (tops
of telephone poles, buildings, on bridges and overpasses, etc).
   This would mean that it would cost an awful lot of money to remove each of 
these things, IF they could be found.

Possible power sources: batteries (but they need to be changed)
                        solar power (Australia leads the world in solar power
                                     technology, and I know people who know
                                     people).
                         Near Field Interaction and EMF pickups (stick 'em
                            near high-frequency power transmission lines).
                         Something that convert heat to electrical energy
       or combinations of all of the above.

The idea being that we would have an untraceable, unbreakable network. Sure,
you may have an address (perhaps we could set it up as a FQDN domain?), but
that address would not correspond to any actual physical location. And, it
would be free, aside from the cost of the equipment. No more phone calls
to pay for!

I have no idea how this could be done across interstate or international 
distances, but I'm sure people might have ideas. Bounce signals off
satellites (are those big shiny things from the 50's still about?); send
stuff encrypted via the internet, etc etc.

This could well mean that we would have a truly private network, with 
strong encryption and no centralised source of transmission (I mean, most
of the internet traffic into and from Australia goes via a single link, 
so far as I know).

Comments?

Dwayne





