From: Peter Meyer <meyer@mcc.com>
Date: Fri, 16 Apr 93 20:20:59 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: New versions of encryption software released
Message-ID: <19930417032006.8.MEYER@OGHMA.MCC.COM>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


I suppose I could use a fig leaf to cover the price of this software so
that this posting might seem less "commercial", but - what the hell -
this isn't sci.crypt and we're not concerned with maintaining academic
purity.  This encryption software is available *now*.  You might
consider shelling out a few bucks (which allows you to make use of the
result of a few years' work) before the govt. makes it illegal to buy,
sell or use encryption software.

                   New Version Release Announcement
             Dolphin Software releases three new versions
                    of MS-DOS encryption software

Dolphin Software's data encryption software has been released in two
new versions, Dolphin Encrypt (V. 2.11) and Dolphin Encrypt Advanced
Version (V. 2.10).  The encryption routines are also available as a
C function library.

Both Dolphin Encrypt and the Advanced Version use a symmetric key
encryption process to encrypt data on MS-DOS computers, and can
encrypt multiple files with a single command.  File pathnames are
supported and there is extensive error checking.  If you wish to
transmit encrypted data as email then Dolphin Encrypt can be told to
output the encrypted data as text.  There is no limit on the size,
the type or the number of files.  Files are normally compressed during
encryption.  Screen output can be sent to a file or to a printer for a
record of operations.  The encryption process, described in detail in
the documentation, relies partly on the RSA Data Security, Inc., MD5
Message Digest Algorithm.

The Advanced Version has all of the features described above, and also
encrypts whole floppy disks.  All common disk sizes are supported and
are automatically recognized.  Additional command line options are
supported, including the options of echoing or not echoing the
encryption key during entry.  There is a decrypt-and-display-only
option (with no plaintext written to disk).  The Advanced Version can
be run silently from another application program to encrypt or decrypt
files.  It has a script language (with if-else-endif) which allows
automation of frequently-performed, complex or conditional operations.
The Advanced Version comes with utility programs to read multiple text
files, compare files, purge files and wipe a disk clean of data; these
can be called from scripts.

The Dolphin Encryption Library is a C function library containing
functions for encrypting and decrypting blocks of data in memory
(from 1 byte to about 10K in size).  Complete source code is included.

Dolphin Encrypt is priced at $64.00 and the Advanced Version at $128.00.
The function library is available for licensing to developers.  For more
information contact Dolphin Software at 4815 W. Braker Ln. #502, Austin,
TX 78759 (phone 512-479-9208).




