From: tcmay@netcom.com (Timothy C. May)
Date: Thu, 7 Oct 93 02:15:28 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: HACKERS: Crypto Session Being Planned
Message-ID: <9310070915.AA07202@netcom5.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


The Hackers Conference is coming up in early November at Lake Tahoe.
Many of you will be attending.

I've agreed to put together a session on "Crypto" for Saturday
afternoon, for a 90 minute period, in the main room. Pretty much like
last year. Every year the crypto theme grows stronger, and the events
of the past year should make crypto a really hot topic at this year's
conference. 

There are lots of things we could focus on: the Clipper/Skipjack
controversy, PGP (Zimmermann may be there...I'm not sure), the general
Cypherpunks agenda, and so on.

I'd like to hear any ideas you folks may have, whether or not you'll
be attending. And also any volunteers to talk (briefly!) or be on a
panel discussion, depending on what structure we follow.

Since there are so many folks on this list who'll be at Hackers, it'd
be nice to get some fresh faces and hear about some new and exciting
work. However, the audience will probably want to hear about the
PGP-Zimmermann case (best in its own session, or a "BOF" session,
IMHO), the Clipper and key escrow situation, and new legal issues.

Perhaps we can split the session into two parts. First, several
short (4-6 minute) speeches/talks on subjects, then a panel discussion
and questions from the audience. 

Alternatively, make the whole thing a panel discussion with about 6-8 panelists
and really try to hit a wide range of topics, with lots of audience
participation. 

I think it best that we not let politics dominate, as most Hackers
attendees share much the same disdain we have for certain government
actions, and a political focus usually turns into a gripe session,
besides not being very "hackerish." Also, political and legal issues
surrounding crypto and cyberspace will likely surface in other
sessions, as they did last year when Mike Godwin gave a Friday talk on
EFF sorts of legal issues, and then key registration and hacker
crackdowns got discussed in the usual marathon Sunday gripe session.

(This does not mean we should concentrate on PERL scripts and MIME
agents, as I'm sure few in the audience would be interested. A
delicate balance is needed, to keep the discussion interesting and
informative.)

I will *not* speak myself, but will instead *ruthlessly* moderate and
control the time schedule....it is far too easy for discussion of
remailer software or key escrow issues, for example, to soak up all
available time.  I'll also try to head off the questions about "the
basics," the things that clearly can't be covered in the time
available.

Last year's speakers can certainly speak again this year, but it may
be better to pump in some fresh blood if possible. (If one of the
talks is a recap of the first year of Cypherpunks, which I think would
make a nice segment, then Eric Hughes would be the natural speaker,
even though he spoke last year. We can work out something.)

If you know someone who is going to Hackers, who is not on
Cypherpunks, but who is doing something interesting in crypto, pass
this message on. (And if you are reading this message because someone
forwarded it to you for this reason, please get in touch with me if
you're interested in participating.)

Send in your suggestions, either to me personally or (gulp) to the
overall list, but only if you think others would benefit.

I have some ideas myself about the themes and topics, but it's best
that I say no more for now.

Thanks for your help!

-Tim May


-- 
..........................................................................
Timothy C. May         | Crypto Anarchy: encryption, digital money,  
tcmay@netcom.com       | anonymous networks, digital pseudonyms, zero
408-688-5409           | knowledge, reputations, information markets, 
W.A.S.T.E.: Aptos, CA  | black markets, collapse of governments.
Higher Power: 2^756839 | Public Key: PGP and MailSafe available.
Note: I put time and money into writing this posting. I hope you enjoy it.




