From: Tiia Roth-Biester <72147.3504@CompuServe.COM>
Date: Tue, 2 Mar 93 17:03:56 PST
To: <cypherpunks@toad.com>
Subject: Re: more ideas on anonymity
Message-ID: <930302214903_72147.3504_EHC47-1@CompuServe.COM>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


 
>However, is it illegal to use false ID in order to conduct perfectly legal
>transactions in order to preserve privacy/anonymity?  How about it, any of
>you guys associated with the CPSR, EFF, or ACLU, can you answer this one?
 
>Murdering Thug
 
 
Lexus research elided...
 
>(Matthew J Miszewski)
 
At Common Law, you could call youself anything you wanted as long as
there was no intent to defraud.  Generally you can still do this today.
Matthew-In the case you dug up what sort of identity documents were
used?  Obviously, forging government ID documents is a separate crime.
If you are signing something "under penlty of perjury" or "with a
warranty of truthfullness" the person you are dealing with may be able to
throw the agreement (whatever it is) out.  There is also the possibility
of legal action.  You can cross the language out before signing (we are
always free to negotiate) and hope that the bored clerk you are dealing
with doesn't notice or if you are using forms that can be obtained in
advance in blank you can remove the offending language and replace it
with nondescript language using DTP technology.
 
Avoid using government ID and substitute "soft ID" such as employment
ID or school ID.  Since anyone in America is free to form a "company" or
a school ID can also be issued.  Obtain a secured VISA card or a VISA
debit card in a nome de guerre.  This is pretty good ID.  If the
financial institution is overseas, you may not have to provide proof of
identity.  In this country (or Canada) bank accounts -- including secured
credit card accounts -- can still be obtained in a nome de guerre if you
work at it.
 
If you aren't engaging in other illegal activity, prosecutions for using
an alternate identity are rare.
 
Duncan Frissell
 





