From: fergp@sytex.com (Paul Ferguson)
Date: Mon, 22 Feb 93 20:58:46 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Unforgotton topic
Message-ID: <gRqeZB1w165w@sytex.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


I realize that this has already been an old topic amonst you folks,
but I just wanted to post a summary I found rather striking and an
issue I know still leaves a bad taste in our collective mouths -
 
"Threats to Privacy", "FBIs Wiretapping Proposal Thwarted", extracted
from Boardwatch Magazine, February, 1993, pages 19 - 22 ( BBS
Legislative Watch, Shari Steele, EFF) -
 
"In a move that worried privacy experts, software manufacturers and
telephone companies, the FBI proposed legislation to amend the
Communications Act of 1934 to make it easier for the Bureau to perform
electronic wiretappiing. The proposed legislation, entitled 'Digital
Telephony,' would have required communications service providers and
hardware manufacturers to make their systems 'tappable' by providing
'back doors' through which law enforcement officers could intercept
communications. Furthermore, this capability would have been provided
undetectably, while the communications was in progress, exclusive of
any communications between other parties, regardless of the mobility
of the target of the FBI's investigation, and without degradation of
service.
 
"The privacy implications are frightening. Today, all sorts of
information about who we are and what we do, such as medical records,
credit reports and employment data, are held on electronic databases.
If these databases have government-mandated 'tappability,' this
private information could be accessed by anyone tapping in. In
addition, the language in the proposed bill is vague. This is
especially troubling since, under the proposal, the Department of
Justice (DOJ) can keep communications products off the market if it
determines that these products do not meet the DOJ's own vague
guidelines. This will probably result in increased costs and reduced
competitiveness for service providers and equipment manufacturers,
since they will be unlikely to add any features that may result in a
DOJ rejection of their entire product. And to add insult to injury,
the FBI proposal suggests that the cost of this wiretapping 'service'
to the Bureau would have to be borne by the service provider itself,
which ultimately means you and I will be paying higher user fees.
 
"The Electronic Frontier Foundation organized a broad coalition of
public interest and industry groups, from Computer Professionals for
Social Responsibilty (CPSR) and the ACLU to AT&T and Sun
Microsystems, to oppose the legislation. A white paper produced by
the EFF and ratified by the coalition, entitled, 'An Analysis of the
FBI Digital Telephony Proposal,' was widely distributed throughout the
Congress. Senator Patrick Leahy (D-Vermont) and Representative Don
Edwards (D-California), chairs of two key committees, referred to the
EFF paper as they delayed the introduction of the FBI's proposal. As
Leahy stated before the Senate, 'Our goal is to assist law
enforcement,' but 'without jeopardizing privacy rights or frustrating
the development of new communications technologies.' The Justice
Department lobbied hard in the final days to get Congress to take up
the bill before Congress adjourned, but the bill never even found a
Congressional sponsor (and was therefore never officially introduced).
The FBI will almost certainly reintroduce "Digital Telephony" when the
103rd Congress convenes in January."
 
8<------------ End Article --------------
 
Take a stance. Voice your opinion. Write your congressman!
 
Paul Ferguson                     |  "Sincerity is fine, but it's no
Network Integration Consultant    |   excuse for stupidity."
Alexandria, Virginia USA          |                       -- Anonymous
fergp@sytex.com     (Internet)    |
sytex.com!fergp     (UUNet)       |
1:109/229           (FidoNet)     |
         PGP public encryption key available upon request.

---
fergp@sytex.com (Paul Ferguson)
Access <=> Internet BBS, a public access internet site
Sytex Communications, Arlington VA, 1-703-358-9022




