From: kwaldman <kwaldman@BBN.COM>
Date: Wed, 27 Oct 93 04:22:39 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Net Requlation
Message-ID: <9310271119.AA16228@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


	Say the best way to go is to become a perpetual tourist. That is
you don't have US citzenship and thus are not subject to it's taxes and
other nosy laws. [Not that other government's don't have nosier laws]. 
Anyway

	1. If you don't have US citzenship, how do you get a passport? (Buy
it on sale from the Czech republic or what?)

	2.  Where do you live?  I mean I love to travel but after 3 or 4 weeks
of it I'm ready to settle down and hibernate for a long while. [Especially now
with a wife and 2 sons, I'd last about 2 days traveling :-)]  Somewhere
were I don't have to get thrown in jail for thinking the wrong thoughts. 
[Which given the nature of this list most of us do, except of course our
NSA monitors :-)]

	3.  Are the TELECOM connections there yet?  I saw this weeks
Economist and it looks promising but last time I was in Europe some of  
my phone connections were less than perfect. [Even parts of the US leave 
something to be desired].  I personally need a good phone line 
(especially if I'm hundreds of miles from my customer), and a minimum of 
56kbaud link for my computer. 

	4.  Customer interaction.  This is a problem, if you work on computer
systems that are unique or program custom software for these systems,
customer interaction is very important ( and in other areas I'm sure).  
Yes email, video conferencing (expensive!) help but you either need to
be  there or have very good VR (which I have yet to see, this doesn't
mean much  as I haven't seen bad VR yet either).


	The one plus is that I believe there is still time (5-10) years
before the costs outweigh the benifits of living in the US and thus
there is time to plan things like what country to live in, which bank
to use in the channel isles and let technological advance solve some
of the bandwidth problems.

		Karl Waldman

BTW The above shouldn't imply I disagree with Ducan's premise.  In fact I
have enjoyed his posts and agree with most of what he says, so I guess I should
shut up and buy some DUCAN (or whatever) on HEX.

P.S. Ducan please post your talk after you get back from London.  I will
transfer 1000 thornes  to your HEX account (if you have one)




