From: Karl Barrus <elee9sf@Menudo.UH.EDU>
Date: Sun, 15 Aug 93 15:42:00 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: encrypting virus (KOH)
Message-ID: <199308152240.AA11446@Menudo.UH.EDU>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----


Well, perhaps any discussion of viruses tends to cause feelings to run
high, so perhaps the author of potassium hydroxide shouldn't have
termed his program a virus.

I don't see any difference between Stacker 3.0 and its stacked disk
option that compresses files on a floppy and inserts a small
decompression routine there as well, and the encrypting "program" I
posted information on.  Well, besides the fact the Stacker compresses
and potassium hydroxide encrypts.

> Anything a virus could beneficially do, a legitimate,
> non-replicating program can do better.

Well, if I were more proficient in assembly I might code an encrypting
Stacker program.  Perhaps you will take the public domain code,
disassemble it and improve it, elevating it from "virus" status.

> Also, every virus harbors the potential for damage. No programmer
> (read: virus author) can possibly know each and every environment
> where the code will be introduced.

Yes, this may be true, and applied to every program ever written, not
just "viruses".  

Not to insult anybody, but if memory serves PGP had a bug which
destroyed files on hard drives.... why, even Microsoft's CHKDSK
program had a bug which could destroy a hard drive.

Modern software is complex and configurations uncountable.  Now I do
not advocate spreading viruses and damaging computer systems, but to
imply the only viruses harbor potential for damage is surely
ridiculous.

I posted this because the purpose of the "virus" is to automatically
encrypt files, a goal that I understand some people on this list are
working on.  If anybody is interested in a copy, I can send it.  A
disassembly would be instructive, and would allow people to fine tune
the program, improve it, incorporate it into other projects, etc.

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.3a

iQCVAgUBLG67HYOA7OpLWtYzAQF5IAP/VFEqemlG8ntyyqikQie1eFR+61D2JX8k
3k5oc5pU2LdYqFPKDFyNQ/Rn/Sw9LAB2+NFfc4X1J1+nWcGTPxZ1Njb5n9tYrC8D
WQUMD6O8NxgKQhfJMsBJQqmbrXKcCnLOfAYyzDlrEszmKzg3xp0uqRqvsh2rHyIb
YDK6HYk3B08=
=f6WE
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----




