From: bill@twwells.com (T. William Wells)
Date: Sun, 5 Sep 93 14:06:59 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: anonymous routing
Message-ID: <CCwDIJ.Cp9@twwells.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


I've been thinking about the problem of sending anonymous e-mail
without using explicit routing. Here's one solution.

Each message is comprised of two parts, an encrypted address and
the data to be transmitted. The encrypted address has N parts,
each encrypted so that it can be decrypted by one remailer. These
N parts each contain information such that M of them can be used
to reconstitute the destination address. Note that no indication
is given of which remailer decrypts which; a remailer is expected
to attempt decryption of all of them and to check for success.
When a remailer is able to decrypt a piece, it replaces it with
its decrypted value. It then remails the results, either to a
randomly chosen remailer or to the destination, if it has the M
parts.

Sounds like the mail will never get delivered? Possibly.

	N pieces in the message
	M pieces needed to recover the addresses
	R remailers

If I haven't screwed the math,

H = R * (1/N + 1/(N-1) + 1/(N-2)....1/(N-M+1))

That is, the average number of hops to deliver a message will be
the product of the size of the remailer pool and a factor that is
purely a function of the address information. This number amounts
to an appreciable fraction of the remailer pool unless the number
of pieces is very large. For example, with just two pieces needed
and 20 pieces provided, you'll hit about 10% of the remailers.

Combine this with two things: make all messages the same size and
create a "background" set of noise messages and I think that just
about covers connecting sender to receiver. The only exception I
can think of is that, since a message going into the system has
the same data going out, if the bad guys see it in both places
you're screwed. There's an obvious solution to that that I've
overlooked, right?





