From: Karl Barrus <elee9sf@Menudo.UH.EDU>
Date: Mon, 19 Jul 93 06:35:22 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: ANON: AP story
Message-ID: <199307191334.AA09153@Menudo.UH.EDU>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



In today's Houston Chronicle appeared a story ("Federal employee's
computer searched after whistleblowing") which ties together
cypherpunk concerns: whistleblowing, privacy, etc.  I'll just type in
a few paragraphs.


Washington - The Resolution Trust Corp.'s top lawyer authorized a
secret search of an employee's computer that turned up files detailing
whistleblowing activities, a document shows.
	An internal agency memo shows RTC officials conducted the
search after failing to persuade the agency's inspector general to do
it, and says that the IG assured the RTC officials they wouldn't be
investigated if questions were later raised.  The IG's office disputes
the claim.
	Officials at the savings and loan cleanup agency say RTC
acting general counsel Richard T. Aboussie gave the go-ahead for the
search because he suspected Bruce Pederson, a mid-level agency
attorney in Denver, was doing personal business on government equipment.
	[1 paragraph deleted]
	Pederson has never disputed that the agency found personal
matters in his files, arguing instead that the search was an invasion
of privacy.  Pederson said he believes agency officials were trying to
punish him for being a whisleblower.  "These evens are outrageous," he
said.
	The search of Pederson's computer, first reported in May,
occurred less that six months after he had criticized agency
management practives in testimony before a Seante panel.  He gained
assurances at the time that he would not be retaliated against for
airing his views.
	[2 paragraphs deleted]
	The federal wiretap law was expanded in 1986 to prohibit
employers, including the government, from accessing employee work
computer records.  Under the law, the government is allowed to conduct
clandestine searches if the employee is suspected of espionage or
theft.  Pederson was under no such suspicion.  [I guess this is the ECPA?]
	[4 paragraphs deleted]
	According to electronic time stamps on each document, many of
the letters and memos were generated on Pederson's government computer
after normal working hours, the memo revealed.  [Probably not
cryptographic timestamps :-)]
	[3 paragraphs deleted to end of article]

He should've used PGP!




