From: jdblair@nextsrv.cas.muohio.EDU
Date: Wed, 27 Oct 93 12:17:56 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: my sad observations...
Message-ID: <9310271936.AA04768@ nextsrv.cas.muohio.EDU >
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


I have followed the cypherpunk list for about 9 months now, and I have learned
A LOT directly from it.  I have rarely posted, just read the material as it
appeared, learning from what I was able to without getting lost in equations.

There is always a certain amount of noise to useful signal from any information
source, although over the past month the signal to noise ratio on Cypherpunks
has become almost intolerable.  I now read few of the messages, just sifting
out what I hope will be useful to me from the subject headings.  If any of
you are able to read ALL of the posts, and keep up the rest of your work, I
commend you.

Perhaps the current state is a symptom of growing popularity.  Since it has
always appeared to me that the point of the list was to disseminate information
on cryptography, and provide a discussion point for those interested in
spreading the use of cryptography, growing popularity would seem to be a
signal of success.

However, I miss the state of the list last April, when every time I checked it
I felt like I learned something new about cryptography.  Perhaps those with
little to say, that seem to be posting just to cause trouble or to be heard,
would better serve the group if they faded out for a while now, and just
watched until they were ready to say something useful.

I do not wish to flame anyone in particular, or to start a flame war, just
point out (probably for the nth time) what is a growing problem.

If any new listeners are interested, I have an archive of the postings which
I found interesting, or seemed like they would be useful.  I do not pretend
that it is the definitive cypherpunk archive, especially since there is a 2.5
month gap for the summer when I was living out of my pack in the Sangre De
Christo Mtns.  If you want a copy, e-mail me.  Please put "archive request"
in the subject header.  

For intro. information, the Cryptography FAQ, posted on sci.crypt
was very helpful for me.

This posting has now gotten too large, and is perhaps guilty of the problem I
am addressing.  For this, I apoligize.

code on, -john.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
John Blair                      |Fertilize your garden with dirt, compost,
jdblair@nextsrv.cas.muohio.edu  |old magazines, Apple II logic boards, obsolete
PGP Key available upon request  |software, forgotten video images, rusty cans,
                                |canceled stamps, love, hate, and desire.
                                |Wait untill spring, and see what comes up.



