From: Jim choate <ravage@wixer.bga.com>
Date: Fri, 31 Dec 93 15:20:50 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Hypnosis and a pass-phrase...
Message-ID: <9312312245.AA08763@wixer>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Hey everyone,

Hope you are all having a great holidays...:)

On the suggestion of a post-hypnotic suggestion it is great but it won't work.
Psychologist and Psychiatrist are both very familiar with the signs of such
'tampering' and know how to get around it. Besides this won't support a
defence since it shows pre-meditation to refuse and would only fauster the
states case to use unlimited incarceration as pursuasive motivation. If they
can prove you commited some action(s) prior to a crime which directly relate
to that crime you are providing the state w/ probably cause, opportunity,
motive, and a goodly amount of circumstantial evidence. I fail to see how
shooting oneself in the foot is helpful...;)

Probably the safest thing would be to make agreements among your friends to
generate pass phrases for each other. One could then exchange public -
private key pairs in some kind of anonymouse way. Then you could say in all
honesty that you did not know it.

On the stego front,

I assume since nobody responded about my request for HSV information that we
had nobody involved w/ it. Archie couldn't find any either....:(

I was looking over some material done by Huffman years after his coding work
relating to describing graphics w/ a meta-language. His motivation was
looking at Escher prints and trying to determine a methodology to determine
if a 2D representation was a honest representation of a 3D subject. He
apparently succeded and I suspect that using such techniques you could find
images which contained information imbedded in them. I am trying to find the
material localy and will let you know what comes of it (if anything). Anybody
else take a look at this work? I suspect that some of Penrose's tiling work
might also be applicable but know nothing about except some SA articles here
and there.

Finaly,

This morning I got e-mail claiming some guy found a shift and add technique
for cracking RSA algorithms. Did anyon else get this? Anyone know anything
about its authenticity or reference locations? Off to Archie...

Everybody have a great party tooooonite!





