From: Chris Hibbert <hibbert@memex.com>
Date: Wed, 17 Mar 93 01:03:39 PST
To: Nickey MacDonald <i6t4@jupiter.sun.csd.unb.ca>
Subject: Re: [cleaned-up] University Policies
In-Reply-To: <Pine.3.05.9303121540.A1094-d100000@thebe.sun.csd.unb.ca>
Message-ID: <9303162224.AA18391@entropy.memex.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain




 POLICIES                                             
                                                      
 The computing and communication systems at the University of New
 Brunswick are intended to be used in a manner that is supportive of
 the University's objectives.  All constituents of the University are
 able to apply to use the university's computing facilities.  When
 that privilege is granted (e.g., when an account is issued), it is
 granted with the understanding that the use of the computing system
 will correspond to the purpose(s) stated in the request.
                                                      
 At the University of New Brunswick Computing Services Department,
 internal customers (students, faculty and staff) are not personally
 billed for use but are held personally responsible for use made of
 their accounts.  Certain practices are considered a misuse of
 university property.  Examples of such misuse are the use of any part
 of the computing system for personal or corporate profit, or to
 provide free resources to unauthorized persons.
                                                      
 The following policies govern the use of the University of New
 Brunswick Computing Services Department facilities:
                                                      
 1.  No person or persons shall use the facilities of the University
     Computing Services Department without due authorization by
     Computing Services.
                                                      
 2.  Every allocation of computing resources is made on the
     understanding that it is to be used only for the purpose for
     which it was requested and only by the person or persons by whom
     or on whose behalf the request was made.  Use shall not be made
     of computing resources allocated to another person or group
     unless such use has been specifically authorized by Computing
     Services.
                                                      
 3.  No person or persons shall by any wilful or deliberate act
     jeopardize the integrity of computing equipment, networks,
     programs, or other stored information.
                                                      
 4.  Persons authorized to use computing and communication resources
     shall be expected to treat as privileged, any information not
     provided or generated personally which may become available to
     them through their use of these resources; they shall not copy,
     modify, disseminate, or use any part of such information without
     permission of the appropriate person or body.

 5.  Improper use of Computing Services may result in withdrawal of
     access privileges or other penalties.  The following (but not
     limited to the following) may be considered improper:

     * Frivolous use of any workstation, computer or network.
     * Inspection of data or functions which are neither allotted to
         the inspector, nor specified as public.
     * Inspection of data which have to do with utilization,
         authorization or security.
     * Modification of data which are not specifically assigned to
         or created by the modifier.
     * Use of another's account.
     * Interference with other persons accessing the systems,
         networks or equipment.
     * Destruction of data or property which is not owned by the
         destroyer.
     * Attempting to gain access to another's resources, programs,
         or data.
     * Use of another's programs or data without their permission.
     * Sending obscene or vulgar messages.
     * Abusive or destructive use of hardware or public software.
     * Use of the facilities for personal or corporate gain without
         an external account.  Examples of such use include producing
         invitations, posters, personal correspondence, etc., and the
         sale of computer programs or results developed under an
         internal account.

 6.  Customers are expected to:

     a.  Be responsible for the use of their computer accounts.  They
         should make appropriate use of system provided security
         features and take precautions against others obtaining access
         to their computing resources.

     b.  Refrain from engaging in deliberately wasteful practices such
         as:

         * unnecessary holding of workstations or telecommunications
             lines;
         * producing unnecessarily large printer listings;
         * performing unnecessary computations;
         * creating and retaining unnecessarily large files;
         * unnecessary holding of peripheral equipment.

     c.  Utilize efficient and effective techniques for program
         execution.




