From: Arthur Abraham <a2@well.sf.ca.us>
Date: Tue, 27 Apr 93 09:37:01 PDT
To: tcmay@netcom.com
Subject: Re:  A correction, and another motive for Clipper
Message-ID: <199304271636.AA22886@well.sf.ca.us>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


27-Apr-93

Tim,

Your suggestion has the validity of strong logic: it fits all
the facts we know, leaves none out, and makes no external
assumptions.

In particular, while the rotten underbelly of society
(terrorists, drug runners, producers of TV sitcoms) would have
no compunctions about using further encryption within a
Privacy Clipper wrapper, a government employee or contractor
who did would be highly suspect, and -- knowing Big Uncle
might be listening -- would be restrained from performing
kick-back business as usual.  Is this the technological fix to
government corruption?

Following this theory, I am sure we would all applaud
legislation restraining the gov-guys from using non-Clipper
crypto.  The situation might come to resemble drug testing:
legally mandated for individuals in "public saftey" positions,
such as transportation workers and A-bomb builders, not
required where not justified.

The Attorney General is going to buy several thousand of these
things, she already has the money -- and probably a signed
contract with AT&T Greensboro -- and it's unlikely this can be
stopped.  What we can do is use it to our advantage.  

This may be maneuvered into a no-lose situation for us, as...
either: 
     a. The government taps itself, corruption is uncovered,
and the national debt decreases.  Society agrees that public
officials don't deserve privacy, but citizens do.
or:
     b. The government bureaucrats, seeing hard times coming,
reject Privacy Clipping for themselves, and so everybody --
gov and citizens -- retains their privacy. (This is judo: use
their weight against them.) 

Let me suggest this as a political position:

Clipper Privacy for the Government, real privacy for Private
citizens.

-a2.




