From: nobody@eli-remailer
Date: Fri, 3 Sep 93 13:25:37 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: WANTED:  List of very reliable remailers
Message-ID: <9309032021.AA17759@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----


I've been experimenting with the remailers lately, and I've been
trying to put together all the tools I'll need to start sending
most of my email through them.  Towards this end, I wrote a
simple program called CRM that adds forwarding tags, and calls
PGP to do multiple encryptions, and then wraps the result in a
/bin/sh script that will extract the cyphertext and do the
mailing.

In what is starting to look to me like a design flaw, I set the
program up to pick a random chain of a specified length out of a
set of remailers.  All of this talk about remailer reliability
has got me a little bit spooked, because I don't have any way of
knowing if my mail is going through or not.

I'd like to configure my remailer's utility so that it only uses
a small list of *very* reliable remailers, preferably with each
entry on the list being run by a distinct person.

Are there any remailers which:

o    Support PGP encryption?

o    Have been in reliable operation for a significant period of
     time (at least a couple of months)?

o    Are maintained by someone who knows enough about the
     software to prevent it from crashing?

o    Don't introduce significant delays in the remailing? 
     (Unless, of course, they are using some sort of scheme to
     frustrate traffic analysis.)

                               and

o    Are set up on systems over which the remailer's
     administrator has enough clout to prevent a summary shutdown
     without at least giving a couple of days' notice?


I'm assuming (for no very good reason) that Hal Finney's sites
fit these criterium.  If that's true, then strictly speaking, I'd
only need one other similar site run by another person, although
I'd feel better if I was using a chain through three remailers. 
Obviously, the more remailers I have on the list, the better off
I am.  But I'd rather have a small list of highly reliable
remailers than a larger list than contains even a single marginal
one.

The list of remailers that I'm using now came from a list that
was posted to this mail-list a few days ago, and I haven't had
any problems with it (at least none that I know of -- I'm
assuming that all of my mail went through).  I just got a little
worried about the post reporting dropped mail from the jarthur
remailer administrator, which had been mentioned on the list I
had been using as a reliable remailer.

If anyone can help me out, I'd be grateful.

Please post replies to the list, or mail me directly at:

     astrashe@nyx.cs.du.edu

Thanks,

     Alex



-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.3a

iQCVAgUBLIejerGKvmrRrQghAQHvMQQA1Ez5Lxo1glHaJhvquvuti1WseFl4Nw5r
g0qRfeWQFwSbZZtsFUiGs6f4iibj9lVpBwtmL8k7oTYRfCNLe+noi6TC0PChEeHt
BKQmCAGTx5oPu2UtqXUvfFtb2MwqDXxNpX4BOd+klO6qPjBq6H8eG7GCNzSmeLp5
yr3ALw+qANg=
=FSf4
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----




