From: Duncan Frissell <frissell@panix.com>
Date: Wed, 1 Dec 93 09:58:15 PST
To: CYPHERPUNKS@toad.com
Subject: EFF Op-Ed from the NY Tim
Message-ID: <199312011753.AA01622@panix.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


N >The amount of electronic material the superhighway can carry is
N >dizzying compared to the relatively narrow range of broadcast TV and 
N >the limited number of cable channels. Properly constructed and 
N >regulated, it could be open to all who wish to speak, publish and
N >communicate.

How is it possible to prevent it with or without government action.  Since 
the information superhighway will be carrying "phone calls" and since 
there will be absolutely no difference between "phone calls" and 
everything else on the system, "phone calls" can carry everything.  If we 
don't like corporate offerings "phone calls" can be used to disseminate 
whatever we like.  

Phone and cable services were limited because they were government 
monopolies.  The only way to assure that future networks don't suffer from 
these problems, is to eliminate government regulation/monopoly.

The market smashed IBMs closed platform computer system without government 
help.  There is no risk that Bell Atlantic could impose a closed 
network system unless the government helps it.  To the contrary, I 
doubt if they would be able to do it even *with* government help.

And another thing.  I'm sick and tired of moaning about cost.  Services 
are virtually free today and prices can go nowhere but down.  There are 
homeless people on the streets of NY with Internet accounts.  The hardware 
cost of a computer is essentially zero.  What exactly is the fair market 
value of a Commodore Vic 20 and a Commodore 300 baud modem.  I know I can 
get an XT+1200 baud modem + shareware comms program for circa $100 at any 
computer show in NJ.

Once your local loop monopoly is broken, local phone service will be dirt 
cheap.  Network Email connections via local BBS are cheap.  AT&T Mail 
charges a big $3/month for an Email account (with 800 number).  Most 
network services are reachable via Email gateways.

The real prices of almost all open market goods have fallen dramatically 
since WWII.  This has particularly been the case in telecoms and 
electronics.  This decline will continue.  We need market discipline not 
government discipline to open up network access. 
   
DCF



--- WinQwk 2.0b#1165
                                                                                                               




