From: deltorto@aol.com
Date: Fri, 12 Mar 93 16:10:51 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: FWEE! premature testing
Message-ID: <9303121624.tn02614@aol.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Dewds,

Just a thought on Tim May's anonymous baptism by Stealth-fire of the WB!
project:

Tim: though I appreciate your enthusiasm, could you *please* wait until there
is something in place to actually _test_ before you test it? I know you
really wanted to post that nifty F-117A thing you OCR'd _somewhere_ but that
was not particularly helpful. It's not like I'm unaware of this issue.

Remember, we're still in Phase One (design & data collection) now. Help with
the design and data collection before you go off on your own and try to show
where the holes are or have some fun with it. Later on, you can be very
helpful if you want to play the Devil's Online Advocate.

[Also, could you please spell my name correctly for the NSA's records? It's
David Del Torto (not Deltorto). I promise not to spell your name "TiM aye" so
they can come and get you too.]

Someone suggested a set of WB guidelines should be posted. I began this
process, and will continue next week after CFP. I ask your patience while I
educate myself.

CFP News: I had a *very* interesting/enlightening discussion with Nicholas
Johnson, the former head of the FCC (under Johnson) last night about the WB!
project - he loves the idea and is willing to help out "somehow." Also, Ralph
Nader's organization is interested in what we're up to. Jim Settle (FBI
Computer Crime Squad) is also surprisingly supportive of the idea. Also,
believe it or not, a fellow from the CIA likes the idea and posits that, if
done "correctly," the system can 'perhaps be somewhat protected' from posting
by pranksters/attackers with bogus revelations - it might require someone to
preview postings (I would like to DE-nominate myself and suggest that MAYBE a
small review group be set up - let's discuss this, tell me what you think is
a good idea). I believe that the implementation of a simple WB Key system can
assist in this as well (refer to an earlier posting of mine). Of course, this
would require widespread dissemination of encryption software for anyone
needing that option. Dorothy Denning is there: does anyone have a question
for her? A statement? I can post her email address after tonight if y'all
like.

More Later, Gotta Run...

    dave (Del Torto)




