From: hughes@ah.com (Eric Hughes)
Date: Sat, 30 Oct 93 19:29:22 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Signing keys for nyms
In-Reply-To: <9310310111.AA04227@jobe.shell.portal.com>
Message-ID: <9310310224.AA00840@ah.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


>In general, it seems to me that anonymity server operators are the ones
>in the best position to create fake keys for nyms.  

They are certainly in the best position for good or for ill.

>Eric's suggestion that operators should sign the keys doesn't help
>much in this situation.  

If the servers, however, don't sign keys, I don't think the pseudonym
can prove to a third party that alteration has taken place.  See the
protocol below, which detects signatures on false keys.

>I'd say that other methods are needed to
>confirm that encrypted messages to nyms are not being read en route.

Here is such an "other method."

If a provider of any sort is the sole means of access to a series of
communications, there will be the possibility of tampering.  If some
public key must issue forth through this channel only, it is possible
to alter the pseudonym's public key each time it is passed throught
that channel.  Since every protocol which uses communications only
through the server won't work, every solution needs another channel.

Let us assume that the server is signing pseudonym keys.  We want a
protocol to detect key alteration.  If keys are being spoofed, the
pseudonym will have to be provided with a certificate which signs the
true key, but which the provider has transmitted only to the
pseudonym; everyone else sees the provider's false key.

Assume a third party cooperating with the pseudonym.  The pseudonym
sends their own public key as signed by the server--i.e. the
certificate the pseudonym has--to the third party both both through
the provider's pseudonym server and through an anonymous remailer.  If
the server is spoofing keys, the key that passes through the server
will be altered.  The message contains a random number used as an ID
to match up the two messages.  The third party encrypts the message
received from the server with the public key received anonymously and
sends it back to the pseudonym, again through the server.  The server
cannot decrypt this message, since it is encrypted with the true
pseudonym public key, not the false one.  The pseudonym then checks
that the certificates match.

The key to this protocol (and there are plenty similar) is that the
public pseudonym key is transmitted to the outside world by a
different channel than the server.  That's a necessary part of any
solution.

Note that this protocol can be completely automated.  The third party
could be another server which pairs up messages and sends them back.

Why not just send the pseudonym's certificate with an anonymous
remailer?  The reason is that, assuming that all communications to the
pseudonym do pass through the server, the pseudonym might never find
out that their own key had been compromised.  The protocol above,
while more complicated, notifies the pseudonym first of any
alteration.

Eric




