From: J. Michael Diehl <mdiehl@triton.unm.edu>
Date: Sat, 3 Apr 93 21:58:14 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: PGP help and comments.
Message-ID: <9304040558.AA17596@triton.unm.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


I am really learning to love PGP, and I haven't even used it much yet! I'm 
insisting that all my friends get keys.  But....

I would like to set up two secret keys for myself.  One 512 bits long and 
another 1024 bits long.  I'll distribute the short one.  I'll give the long
one to trusted and close friends.  I'm having difficulty setting it up so that
pgp defaults to using the short key to encrypt stuff.  Note that I want the 
same user id for both, but perhapse with a "secure" flag in the user id of the
large key.  How can I do this?

Can we get someone to compile and distribute pgp for the amoeba, er, I mean
Amiga? ;^)  My friend has one, but no C compiler.

Some suggestions for future versions...

Is there any chance of pgp cloaking it's ascii armoured output to look like
uuencoded data?

I would like to use pgp on the mainframes, but don't want to store my secret
key on their disks.   Would it be possible to have pgp accept it's secret key
via stdin.  I could do an ascii upload of my secret key and never expose my
key to disk-storage.

How about password protecting pgp itself.  No one could use my copy of pgp 
unless they knew my password.  And only my copy of pgp could decrypt my 
secret key.  Just a thought.

How about a -wn option that would wipe the original file 'n' times.  Like 
pgp -wen10 very_secret_stuff cohort.  That should keep even Big Brother from
prying.

Is it possible to have pgp develope a third key that looks just like a regular
key except that when it is used in place of your secret key, it produces  an
alternate plaintext.  This way, if Big Brother "requested" you'r key, and
you needed to dissavow all of you'r messages, you could exchange the third key
for you'r secret key.  When someone used this key, they'd get some insulting
message that may or may not have been the original message...and there'd be
no way of knowing.  I kinda doubt it on this one, but wouldn't it be nice!

Geez, have I really gone on for 40 lines?  Sorry about that, but any comments?

Hope to hear from you.

-----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
Version: 2.2
 
mQBNAiu21SIAAAECAMKkKKP4JIxSPR7rOUZ7mbi6yDPfFa7T6zOtOBX8iI939tIU
9JFTxdyvTejK3qmYDGozNaqySQ/0++nGqZgikcsABRG0LUouIE1pY2hhZWwgRGll
aGwsIG1lLCA8bWRpZWhsQHRyaXRvbi51bW4uZWR1Pg==
=YquS
-----END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----





