From: wcs@anchor.ho.att.com (Bill_Stewart(HOY002)1305)
Date: Fri, 16 Jul 93 19:59:33 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: steganography
Message-ID: <9307170258.AA00984@anchor.ho.att.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text


I think Kragen's definition of "Steganographically Strong" is a bit overstrong.
He suggests that the cyphertext should not be recognizeable by its own program,
with no checksums or program-specific delimiters, headers, etc.
If checksums become widely used in other data formats (e.g. MIME or whatever),
having them used in "innocent-looking-format" is ok.  
And having a checksum that only checks out if you have the correct key
for decrypting the file is relatively ok, assuming you use strong encryption;
it's really no more of a giveaway than having the correctly-decrypted
plaintext have other recognizeable format, such as all-ascii or MIME or GIF.

The request for a feature that corrupted files decrypt to total garbage and
not just partial garbage can be implemented using some variant on doubly
encrypting the file, e.g. descbc file | reverse-the-file | descbc.
Most encryption systems can be used in modes that only trash the corrupted 
block, modes that trash the corrupted block and all following blocks,
or modes that trash the corrupted block and some stuff after it,
but eventually resync.  The latter are useful for on-line continuous encryption
systems like ethernet or T1 encryptors, where you don't want to send out
guys with briefcases handcuffed to their arms any time there's a noise burst :-)

One wimpy steganography approach I've thought of recently is to use uuencode.
Each line starts with an indicator of how many characters are on the line,
normally "M" for 64, followed by the characters; you could use variable-length
lines with the length encoding your real (cyphertext) data at 6 bits/line.
It'd be ugly, and probably noticeable, but you could always demonstrate that it 
outputs normal genuinely-innocent stuff by running it through uudecode.
And it's only a factor of 10 less efficient than hiding it in a GIF!

		Bill Stewart



