From: dmandl@lehman.com (David Mandl)
Date: Tue, 16 Nov 93 14:20:54 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Fun with Steganography on "Seinfeld"
Message-ID: <9311162218.AA17766@disvnm2.lehman.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


This is technically not a cypherpunk subject, but it's
related, and I've always wanted to mention it on the list.

On an episode of the TV show "Seinfeld" from a few years ago,
there's a scene where Jerry and Elaine are talking in Jerry's
apartment.  Jerry says something that Elaine doesn't like and
she grumbles something unintelligible in response.  He snaps
back, "What did you say?" and she says "Oh, nothing, forget it."
He says, "Are you sure?" and she responds, "Nothing, never mind"
(or words to that effect). 

Later on in the episode, the same thing happens with Jerry's
friend George: Jerry says something George doesn't like, George
mumbles in response.  Jerry then asks him "Did you say something?"
George says "No."  Jerry: "I'm sure you said something."  George:
"No, I didn't."

Innocent enough.  But if you turn up the volume REALLY loud, you
can hear what Elaine and George mumbled: "What a bunch of bullshit."
It's impossible to hear at normal listening level, but when the
volume is cranked, it's there as plain as day.

So, what we have here is the word "bullshit"--absolutely verboten
by any interpretation of FCC rules--actually smuggled in inside
the innocent conversation in a prime-time TV show.  Even if the
censorship police all sat around watching every minute of the
episode for forbidden material, they would never have caught
this (and obviously didn't).  This episode was shown just like
any other episode of the program, probably more than once.  Most
people are probably unaware of the hidden message.  But it's there.
(This is not an urban legend or a "Paul Is Dead" rumor--this has
been confirmed by many people.)

I've always thought this was an inspired and brilliant use of
steganography.  The producers of "Seinfeld" sneaking the word
"bullshit" right past the censors' nose on prime-time TV?
Awesome.

   --Dave.

P.S.: I forget which episode it is, but I can go search for it
if people insist.




