From: hfinney@shell.portal.com
Date: Wed, 29 Sep 93 23:21:50 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: REMAIL: Message expansion
Message-ID: <9309300550.AA26673@jobe.shell.portal.com.shell.portal.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

One of the problems with chaining remailers as we do it now is that
the message becomes quite a bit larger as you wrap encryption layers
around it, one for each remailer in the chain.

Currently, the remailers are all text-based, which requires that the
message be re-ascii'd at each stage of the encryption nesting.  But
ascii'ing a binary file using PGP's method increases its size by 1/3.

If this asciification could be avoided at each step, the message would
still grow as we add the PGP header and the remailing instructions at
each step, but this would be more moderate.  The PGP header is about
170 bytes, and the remailing instructions should not be more than
70 or 80 bytes, bringing the total to something less than 250 bytes
per step.

I did some calculations.  Suppose you wanted to start with a message
of, say, 4000 bytes which you will send through ten remailers.  First
off, we get an advantage because PGP will compress the message before
encrypting it the first time.  Let's suppose it manages to compress
it by a factor of two.  This means that we have a 2000-byte binary
message as our actual starting point.

In one model, we assume that we add 250 bytes per step.  This is what
it would be if we did not have to do the ASCII'ing process at each
nesting.  In the other model, we assume that we add 170 bytes, multiply
by 4/3, then add 65 bytes for the "-----BEGIN PGP MESSAGE-----" stuff,
and then another 80 bytes for the remailing instruction.  This is how
most of the chaining software actually works now.

Setting up for a ten step chain, the first method produces an output
file of 4500 bytes, while the second produces a file of 54046 bytes.
This is quite a difference.

If we wanted to add three more steps because we feel paranoid, the
first method increases to 5250 bytes, while the second balloons to over
120K bytes!

As a more extreme example, if the initial message was 10K bytes as we
have sometimes seen here, a ten-step chain would produce an output of
7500 bytes without expansion, and over 100K bytes with expansion.
(The smaller-than-input size in the non-expansion case is due to the
assumed 2-to-1 PGP compression of the original message.)

I think we should consider enhancing the remailers so this asciifying
step is not necessary.  It could be done something like this.

As each remailer receives the message, it must be in ASCII since that
is the only thing that makes it across the mail connections.  It decrypts
and de-ascii's it by running it through PGP just like it does now.
Suppose this produces something like the following:

::
Request-Remailing-To: <next remailer in chain>

<binary data>

The first part is in ASCII and is terminated by two new-line characters
in a row.  The rest of the message can be easily determined to be binary;
in fact, it is a binary PGP file, one readable for the NEXT remailer
in the chain.  This could be detected because PGP puts special bytes at
the front of the file.

All the remailer has to do specially is to asciify the binary portion of
the message, add the "Encrypted: PGP" header if we still use that,
and send it off as it normally would.  The next remailer receives a proper
ASCII PGP message which it can handle by the same rules.

Making this enhancment to the remailers would reduce the problems of
message bloat caused by the redundant asciifying of the message for each
stage of the remailer chain.  As we move towards remailers which do batching
and which do message padding so that all outgoing messages are the same
size, it will be more important to avoid this bloat since one big message
will force all others in the batch to be padded to that size by the
remailer.

Hal Finney
hfinney@shell.portal.com

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.2

iQCVAgUBLKpGOqgTA69YIUw3AQGLCQQAgGTXKgPOtgbqs3Dab/PZZNR1XPmLqJIH
nuf5Znj3bpOGGPFGPG5pBfSBmDn3U5uEnG7lMwKovSpXI6zxLv3IEd93X6oGaL5L
5SlZtqzWNgGGXIIVCwNkaio/W5DCvwYq3ZXPtOTWgDH4ZtKOPaifEFF885qv/VCw
heGzkqREjWM=
=qwkV
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----




