From: Brian D Williams <talon57@well.sf.ca.us>
Date: Wed, 22 Dec 93 07:00:36 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: MISC: Markey and the FBI
Message-ID: <199312221500.HAA00135@well.sf.ca.us>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

 Here's a couple of interesting things;



MARKEY ASKS ABOUT LINKING SCHOOLS TO INFORMATION SUPERHIGHWAY
  Rep. Edward Markey (D-Mass.) today asked the largest local 
telephone companies and cable companies for information on their
plans to connect schools to the information superhighway. In a
three-page letter, the chairman of the House Telecommunications
Subcommittee asked the 10 largest local telephone companies and the
10 largest cable companies to answer his questions by January 7. 
"We would be negligent if we did not provide learning links off the
information superhighway to schools and classrooms in this
country," Markey said. "We must make sure that in the information
age, every school has the technology it needs to provide students
with the skills necessary to participate in a knowledge-based
economy," Markey added. He asked the companies to provide
information about plans to provide advanced telecommunications
services to schools and classrooms in their service territories,
and whether they oppose providing digital telecommunications links
free of charge. 
 
Government policies that created a telecommunications network that 
provides universally available, affordable telephone service
"wasn't simply good social policy -- it was good economic policy as
well," Markey said. He also pointed out that historically, cable
companies have not had universal service obligations.  He said he
believes that at some point, cable companies "should be called upon
not only to participate in the economic opportunities presented by
the information superhighway, but also share in the
responsibilities attendant to providing critical links in the
nation's communications infrastructure." 
 
Sure, Free service for everyone, why not? This guy is such a Bozo.
 Lets not forget the FBI.


FBI DIRECTOR CALLS FOR NEW WIRETAP LEGISLATION  FBI Director Louis
J. Freeh has called for new wiretap legislation to ensure telephone
companies provide law enforcement with access to digital
technology. Freeh, who was appointed director of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation (FBI) by President Clinton three months ago, said 
court-authorized wiretapping has been used effectively against 
many criminal groups in the past, but its continued use is 
threatened. Freeh spoke Wednesday at the National Press Club in
Washington, D.C. "Telephone digital technology has advanced in such
a way that  criminals may soon be able to avoid law enforcement
detection  simply by using the telephone," he said.  New
legislation is needed to protect national security and keep up with
criminals, because without it, "one can reasonably predict  
that in the near future, a major terrorist or criminal act will  
occur involving substantial loss of life, such a tragedy that we  
could not prevent because we could not learn critical information 
through electronic surveillance," Freeh said. 

The FBI tried in the previous Congress to have legislation
introduced, but could not find a sponsor.
 
When the FBI was created in 1908, Freeh said there were just a few 
federal laws to be enforced. Over the years, Congress has made the
FBI responsible for investigating many more crimes, which could  
overwhelm the limited resources of federal law enforcement  
agencies, he said. 
 
The FBI is setting priorities so it can have the greatest impact on
the major crime problems confronting the country, Freeh said. 
 

Brian Williams
Extropian
Cypherpatriot

 " A man without religion is like a fish without a bicycle"

 
          
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.3a

iQCVAgUBLRhfsNCcBnAsu2t1AQHTBwQAmY8axcuKeOVCNO+BTxpT3KgbXSJvh5fM
QwAUW/6ZVZseAml2LltrgOWhBXJyUS8JkrwKm8TBd+qTf08Jf/bod+AJQbereFvR
1dJrTTNJza6a71aDJVIuKvMdUEQlEdn6j4z/Mv0v9s6EujPbZVnZg4YHxgc4Lv8P
O1gUvPQkeHU=
=SjOk
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----




