From: "L. Detweiler" <ld231782@longs.lance.colostate.edu>
Date: Tue, 30 Nov 93 00:07:21 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Eric Hughes
Message-ID: <9311300804.AA14043@longs.lance.colostate.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Hello, I've been thinking that the GWELST (Guess Which Eminent Leader
Said This) may be in poor taste and violate the privacy of a
co-conspirator, the latter the #1 psychopunk crime. So, regarding the
`There is no movement. Get this delusion out of your head. There is
only software' quote, I won't say which Eminent Leader is the
originator of this. I just wanted to share this inspirational message
with everyone, hopefully no harm done.

I had some other ideas for the GWELSTing game. As I said, I didn't have
a whole lot of material for this, mostly due to the amazing rock-hard
wall the Eminent Leaders have erected around certain topics, such as
their own involvement in pseudospoofing conspiracies or quasi-criminal
activities. Again, I wouldn't want to violate the privacy of a
criminal, so I will just list this new inspirational quote without
attribution, and let everyone here speculate on its author.

The background behind this was that I had been concerned by leaks or
`crossings' by tentacles of very personal knowledge of my personal
habits and financial transactions -- something that likely could only
have come from stealing my credit card report transactions. I was also
concerned about an Eminent Leader's ties to credit organizations and
credit databases.

So, I asked in a message entitled `dirty secrets' -- `Have you ever
poked around in a credit database?'

The background on the other question was that I had heard references to
a Secret Mailing list by both identified Medusa's Snakes and Medusa
Sisters. The mailing list was supposedly for `project development' free
of `paranoid ranters'! Well, if there was any overlap in `paranoid
ranters' an tentacles, I would certainly like to sign up! I have been
trying to find a single place on the Internet dedicated to project
development and free of Cryptoanarchists, psychopunks, Medusa's snakes
and sisters for many weeks now! Actually, I always thought that *this*
list was dedicated to serious project development, but boy do I know
better! It's a testing ground for Cryptoanarchist brainwashing and
refining tentacle software of course.

Anyway, the second question was -- `is there a secret mailing list?'

* * *

The $64K answer from the Eminent leader was rather terse and cryptic
(ha, ha!), as he usually is. ``Your questions do not allow other than
an incriminating answer.''

I asked him  what he meant by that, I think, but he didn't elaborate.
It's strange how none of the Eminent Leaders answers specifically any
of my questions on various subjects like Pseudospoofing, Conspiracies,
and Deception. The same leader, in response to a long list of my
queries on the subjects, said `I deny it all'. Oh well. Maybe the list
moderator and Cypherpunk movement founder E.Hughes (hughes@ah.com)
would be the person to ask about infiltrating credit databases, a
secret mailing list, pseudospoofing, conspiracies, and deception.
Again, though, I won't reveal the Eminent Cypherpunk Leader who I quote
to Protect Privacy. Just consider me a patriotic Cypherpunk to the end!




