From: kelly@netcom.com (Kelly Goen)
Date: Fri, 19 Feb 93 11:23:14 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: toad.com mailing list postings from possible virus authors (fwd)
Message-ID: <9302191921.AA20295@netcom.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Forwarded message:
> From cypherpunks-request@toad.com Fri Feb 19 07:53:56 1993
> From: Phiber Optik <phiber@eff.org>
> Message-Id: <199302190537.AA28048@eff.org>
> Subject: Re: toad.com mailing list postings from possible virus authors
> To: gnu@toad.com (John Gilmore)
> Date: Fri, 19 Feb 93 0:37:18 EST
> Cc: cypherpunks@toad.com
> In-Reply-To: <9302190140.AA08377@toad.com>; from "John Gilmore" at Feb 18, 93 5:40 pm
> 
> Granted the idiocy of Mr. High-and-Mighty Army Man's opinion of what people
> can and can't say, I couldn't help but point out two silly things in the

  BY Jove I think you have hit it, People go nto the military because
they have an inner need to be controlled and to control to the point of 
violence if need be( for the military in general and the
 army , marines and and special intelligence agencies>, they 
are after all as their prime mission capable of extreme violence and the
taking of human life, as a means of social control.
Law enforcement seems to have very similiar mentality as well,
with CONTROL being the agenda and reason for existance-- 
Suppose we think of guerilla products such as PGP and anoynmous
posting mechanisms and forwarders  in their larger social sense
As behaviour modification for those who would have our privacy
as well as our lives. No social insult is intended by this message about
mr peterson or the military /intelligence/police community.
We should remember however that with the same body of individuals
as just described we are dealing with seriously maladjusted
individuals who have an inate need to control others,
such has been adequately demonstrated by the individuals
attempted supression of Murdering Thug's constitutionally
protected speech, instead of taunting them maybe we should be
finding ways to prevent our tax dollars from
supporting them in their evil OBSCENE fantasies of violence and Control
I for one am DAMN TIRED of being censored supressed and persecuted
by the military/Law Enforcement/Intelligence community . I
am also putting my time in next project with peace/activist/political
groups such as the christic action peace groups(you know the folks
who use to sue the fed over intelligence abuses by the CIA/NSA/DEA/DIA
crouwd) Well i their national organization was wiped out by lawsuit by bush and 
and company and changes in their tax status. These were and are the same
people suing the CIA over the La-penca bombing in honduras of
Journalists during the times of the contras in Nicgura. They while their
agenda is a good bit more political than ours have been the only ones for years
keeping the federal government at bay by lawsuit.
They need technical assistance, hookins to peacenet and Econet and general help,
considering the widespread nature of the problem
we are fighting here maybe we should consider very actively
promultagating PGP and DC style anoymous networks among the
pease/political/human rights group. It would provide
convenient crypto-noise of PGP messgaes and greatly increase
the amount of money that the federal government has to spend investigating and
force them to spread themselves even more thinly...:)

It should also be remembered that the primary impact of products like
PGP and DC style nets beyond the privacy implications is economic.
Investigating citizens cost real tax dollars, the intelligence
oversight committees are not going to let the NSA et al keep
asking for more money year after year and the same
holds true for the law enforcement community, where a witch hunt was possible
before public domain crypto systems such as PGP were available, now
because of the blackout in communications to the intelligence community, 
they are getting very nervuous, people can now communicate secretly
about the best way to end the influence of a massively overbloated
cold war community and stop paying the bills for same...


if you were in THEIR shoes wouldnt you be seeking ways to keep

ATLAS from shrugging???

     
     cheers
      kelly
P.s. sorry for the long and drawn out nature and the rambling style
and the non-techical content, and I do feel it was 
important to express myself in the fashion I have...





