From: Chael Hall <nowhere@chaos.bsu.edu>
Date: Mon, 15 Nov 93 13:44:01 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: UNIX: Chaos Gains Reliability
Message-ID: <199311152234.QAA02431@chaos.bsu.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text



Hello, all,

     I am about six-thousand messages behind on the cypherpunks list, but I
just wanted to tell everyone that I *finally* got a reliable kernel last night.
The patch to my hard drive driver has been installed and verified to be
avoiding the hang problems that chaos had.  The system maintenance schedule
has likewise been modified.  It now reboots only at 5 am daily.  If it holds
up this week, I will change the reboot schedule to once a week (probably
Sunday or Monday morning at 5 am CST).

     If anyone is interested in an account on chaos, they are freely available
granted you have a good reason (i.e., intend to write code, be a productive
user, etc.) by request.  Telnet to chaos.bsu.edu (147.226.53.28) and login
as guest (all lowercase).  It will direct you through the account request
procedure.

     **IMPORTANT**  Chaos has very limited disk space (200 MB) right now.  The
planning committee has decided that once a reliable kernel has been installed
(which I believe was yesterday), we would begin to solicit donations for an
additional 500+ MB of storage.  The deal is (and I think this is pretty fair),
once the users have raised enough to pay for half of the new hard drive, I
will chip in the rest.  Anyone who donates money toward the acquisition of a
new hard drive will be given extra space on the new drive (we haven't quite
decided how it will be done, but two plans are:  give donated users write
access to an additional partition OR move their home directory to the new
partition).  Either way, all non-donated users will be the recipients of a
brand-spanking-new QUOTA!  I'm sorry, there just isn't the space.  Oh, another
thing, when the new drive arrives, it will supplement what is already there.
The old hard drive will not be removed.

     Any comments?  Reply in e-mail, this is not particularly relevant to
cypherpunks.  BTW, what does everyone think of the gopher site?  I'm going
to work on the FTP/NFS site some more one of these days.

Chael Hall
--
nowhere@chaos.bsu.edu
nowhere@bsu-cs.bsu.edu
chall@bsu.edu
00CCHALL@bsuvc.bsu.edu



