From: wcs@anchor.ho.att.com
Date: Tue, 2 Mar 93 16:17:34 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: A novel (?) return address idea
Message-ID: <9303030015.AA23087@anchor.ho.att.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text


John Gilmore writes:
> There seems to me to be a serious problem with the "novel return
> address" idea.  The information that ties together multiple anonymous
> messages from the same person is out in the world, encrypted by a
> single key in a conventional cipher.

I'm not sure there IS a good answer for anonymous news-posting with replies.
For email, you can create a use-once-then-delete anonymous reply address,
which hangs around until a reply happens or garbage-collection hits,
but this isn't practical for news or multiple-recipient email -
you need to keep an alias around for multiple replies to use.
You can assign a new reply address for each posting, which is in some sense
more secure, but it means that there are now many copies of the poster's
email address and public-key (though multiple public keys may be a win.)
But if the remailer site gets compromised, these are about as risky as
multiple messages cryptically pointing to one copy of the address.
(Unless the mapping from anon-reply-id to real-id is cryptographically 
protected.)  (These comments also apply to the dossier problem below.)

If the key-compromise issues you bring up below can be fixed,
then this method is more secure than the one-anon-address-per-user for all
postings method that seems to currently be in use,
and if users can get a new return-address-id on request, 
and delete old return-address-ids on request (features you really need anyway),
it's basically equivalent.

> Furthermore, breaking the key will be possible by sending test-probes
> and doing exhaustive search.  E.g. if you add 128 bits of salt,
> someone can send five or ten messages to themself through the
> remailer, and accumulate ten encrypted addresses that are known to be
> for the same sender.  When decrypted, these keys will have maybe a 16-
> or 32-bit "return address ID" and 128 bits of salt.  The attacker can
> then search the key space for keys that include large numbers of
> identical bits when decrypting those ten keys.  This search is easily

Hmm.  So it's not good enough to just lump 32 bits of address-id and 32 bits
of salt together, because a key-search over 56-bit keys will trigger on
the ones that get the same first 32 bits for multiple cyphertexts.
What if you use triple-DES instead of single-DES as the cypher,
which increases the key search space to at least 112 bits?
This is presumably big enough, especially since the return-address-id
doesn't directly give you the address, though that can be easier to crack.
 
> The idea also suffers from the dossier problem -- all the information
> about return addresses will exist in a single place (at the remailer
> site) where it's tempting for a government (or other adversary of
> privacy) to try for it.

Deleting old addresses and getting new ones helps.
Joe's suggestion of changing the keys also helps: including a few bits in the
crypted address that are essentially another salt to let you pick the crypt key,
but of course this means you need to keep ALL the older keys loaded in the 
system (or at least the last N), either stored (bad) or typed in (also bad.)
I suppose you'd at least store them crypted.  If you periodically dispose of
the oldest ones, then you've limited the amount of time the correspondence is
exposed, which is a good thing, but you've also made it impossible to reply
to really old messages.  (I guess a certain fraction of the postings will be
requests for the poster of <message-ID> to repost something?)

Also, this kind of remailer/reposter may still be chained - 
there's no need for the return address to be a _real_ return address.

				Bill Stewart





