From: edgar@spectrx.Saigon.COM (Edgar W. Swank)
Date: Mon, 12 Jul 93 02:54:22 PDT
To: Cypherpunks          <cypherpunks@toad.com>
Subject: "Data Haven" def
Message-ID: <7wBk7B6w165w@spectrx.saigon.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Patrick E. Hykkonen Inquired:

    Could someone please define a 'data haven'?  I understand digitial
    cash, it is exactly what it sounds like.  However, in the context
    I've heard data haven used in, then there is much more than simply
    keeping one's data encrypted on your local hard drive.

Webster's Seventh New Coll. Dict.:

    Haven: 1: HARBOR, PORT  2: A place of safety  :ASYLUM

My analysis:

A "data haven" is some entity where data can be placed and have some
assurance against either accidental or deliberate destruction.

Encrypted data on your hard disk is safe enough against -disclosure-,
but is very vulnerable to destruction, either accidental or
deliberate.

Certain individuals and governments have such strong views on certain
forms of data that they will destroy them if they even suspect
encryption is hiding such data.

A data haven would ensure such data could not be destroyed without
permission of its owner. The owner might or might not permit
distribution of the data either free or for a fee.

Examples of data at risk for deliberate destruction:

Pornography, especially child ponography.  According to recent news,
a BBS in Denmark (Holland?) may be a data haven for that.

Politically incorrect programs.  For example, the German government is
trying (and may have succeeded) to destroy all copies of a game
program called "Concentration Camp Commander".  This was on the news a
few months ago.

The USA would be a data haven for this program, generally speaking,
since as political speach it would be protected by the First
Amendment. (But I don't know if any copies have ever made it here; I
net-chat with a few people in Europe & none of them have ever heard of
it.)

--
edgar@spectrx.saigon.com (Edgar W. Swank)
SPECTROX SYSTEMS +1.408.252.1005  Cupertino, Ca





