From: Brian D Williams <talon57@well.sf.ca.us>
Date: Wed, 10 Nov 93 10:39:28 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: re: Should we build the Data Superhighway/NII
Message-ID: <199311101839.KAA19331@well.sf.ca.us>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



DISCLAIMER; This is for the private reading of the members of the
Cypherpunks list, and may not be redistributed without permission.
The opinions expressed are strictly my own and do not necessarily
reflect the views of Ameritech or it's alliance partners.   


My two bits on the data highway;

 - on universal access
  
   Ameritech, the consortium of the five regional midwest RBOC's
filed a plan for complete deregulation and access to the local loop
the first week in March under the title of "Advanced Universal
Access" The gist of it? If you remove the regulations against us
competeing in everyone elses markets, we will allow and provide
complete unbundled access to the local loop. Number plan the whole
bit, right to the copper pair if you want.

 My two bits? we don't have any problem with any and all forms of
competition. Do you want "Universal Access"? Then all participants
have to share the costs involved.

 In Illinois alone there are more than 30 companies providing local
loop service, each functions as a "Monopoly" within it's geographic
area. Sprint the long distance company owns and is a "Local Loop
Monopoly" in about 8 areas that I recall,(This was the result of
there purchase of Centel) GTE, all the big boys are here. Large
corporate customers are directly connected with long distance
carriers without touching the local loop.

-  Bell Atlantic and TCI merger? couldn't care less, bring them on!

  I am involved with a number of projects that pertain to the "Data
Highway" concept. 

  - The Extended classroom, part of the "Superschools" project.
This will provide E-mail services and basic info services to K-12
students. The next stage calls for Internet/Usenet Access and
interactive MultiMedia (Hyperlearning) access.

  - Health services network, this is already providing shared info
between various medical agencies and hospitals, it is limited right
now by regulatory restrictions.

  - Announced just this morning....Ameritech has announced an
alliance with Citibank to provide for "Display Telephone" access to
Citibank financial services, this will also provide access to
directory services and advanced telephone services. This is
basically a variation of the French "Minitel" system from the look
of it. I intend on pushing for Internet/Usenet access as well. Of
course this is only the start, got an idea for a service? give us
a call. All are welcome, I expect to see numerous "Garage" startups
providing content of all sorts.

- Video Dialtone, basically a piece of cake if you have the
bandwidth, currently works well down to T-1 speeds (1.54 MPS)

 The Battle to build the "Superhighway" has been called the battle
of 250 million trenches. This refers to the notion that 250 million
sections of local loop will have to be replaced with fiber
eventually. It's true that ISDN can play a part and ADSL
(Asymetrical digital subscriber loop) which has been successfully
tested at 3MPS over UTP and should clear 6MPS in the next 6 months
will help fill the gaps. Some Cable companies will have their own
offerings, as will various "Telecosm" pioneers we've yet to see.

 The cost of building the initial "Fibersphere" has been estimated
at 250 billion dollars. Who's going to foot the bill? The existing
cable plant is more than sufficient for the services the telco's
are currently permitted to offer. We've made our point clear ( see
the FCC filing "Advanced Universal Access") Turn us loose, and
we'll build it, or at least contribute to it,  ;) and equal access
will be provided to all competitors.

 We're going to build it anyway, " Are you with me men!"

Brian Williams
Cypherpatriot
Extropian

* Telecosm and Fibersphere are from the works of futurist George
Gilder, his work is highly recommended.

* Hyperlearning is from the work of Lewis J. Perelman particularly
"Schools Out, Hyperlearning, the new technology, and the end of
education." Also highly recommended.   





