From: astrashe@nyx.cs.du.edu (Alex Strasheim)
Date: Thu, 2 Sep 93 07:50:12 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: CRM, a new remailer's utility
Message-ID: <9309021447.AA16276@nyx.cs.du.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


I've just written an msdos utility called CRM that I'd like to offer to
the public for testing.  CRM is supposed to make use of the encrypted
cypherpunk remailers as simple as possible.

This is how it works:  you tell crm the name of the input (plaintext
file), and the address of the person you want to send it to, and crm will
affix the "Request-Remailing-To:" and "Encrypted: PGP" headers to the
document and perform nested encryptions with PGP.  It wraps the result in
a /bin/sh script that will mail the cypher text to the first remailer on
the chain when it's executed.

If you did one of these on your msdos computer:

	crm tfile astrashe@nyx.cs.du.edu

You'd end up with a file called tfile.crm that would contain the shell
script.  Then if you uploaded that to your unix account, and typed:

	sh < tfile.crm

The message would be sent to me through a chain of encrypted remailers.

A random list of of of crm's features:

You can specifiy the subject line in the original text file, or crm will
prompt you for it.  You can put the destination address in the command
line, or you'll be prompted for that as well.

Output (.crm) files can be concatenated to make a single long script that
will send more than one letter.

The subject-line is embedded in the ciphertext.

The number of links in the chains and the list of possible remailers is
contained in a text file that can be located anywhere on the path.

Crm is writen in turbo pascal 5.5 and the source comes with it.  I wrote
it all yesterday (except for some recycled code fragments), so it's kind
of quick and dirty.

If anyone would be willing to take a look at this, I'd be grateful.  Once
I'm convinced it's reliable (it *seems* reliable now) I'll upload it to soda.

If you're interested, email me at astrashe@nyx.cs.du.edu and I'll send you
a uuencoded version through the mail.  Please put CRM in the subject of
your letter so that it doesn't get lost in the shuffle.

Thanks.

	Alex
	astrashe@nyx.cs.du.edu





