From: deltorto@aol.com
Date: Sat, 27 Feb 93 04:49:08 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Real World Kinda Guys Unite
Message-ID: <9302270749.tn34786@aol.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


>>Hal
>>
>>P.S. How about Deadbeat posting a public key?  He keeps signing his
>>messages but I can't check them.

Yeah. How 'bout that, 'Beat? At _least_ we'd have the false security of being
able to check your Pkey now and then...

I feel full of Piss and Vinegar, so I'm volunteering to help get this
WhistleBlowers thingus up and rolling.

First, we need to disseminate PGP in it's various forms (UNIX, Amiga, Mac,
DOS, etc) to some news agencies (e.g. TV stations, newspapers, radio like
KQED, etc.). I need each person who represents a platform to send me a full
package of PGP with Docs that I can have duped for mailing (for educational
purposes only). No charge. We'll begin with a core group of media people and
see how it goes. I have floated a few trial balloons and they're ready to
bite. I suspect that we'll see it take off like a rocket, as Tim May
suggested.

All this discussion is truly fascinating, but if it doesn't get out into the
real world it ain't worth the media it's magnetized on. I guess I'm just a
real world kinda guy.

1. Let's get a reasonably friendly anon remailer process going for them. It
*must* come with complete instructions for the hapless many. Get writing and
send 'em to me. I am working on some simple instructions for MacPGP and will
post an example as soon as I can get through all the damn mail in my various
mboxes. (Overload!)

2. Let's hook some Govt. employees into it ASAP and really get this
whistleblowing thing going. I want to stir up some mud at the bottom like
Kelly suggests and I want it done NOW.

3. I need help from ALL of you to do this. I am beginning to compile a
comprehensive list of Govt Officials from the White House on down thru the
Congress to the Cabinet and the Joint Chiefs. This database will include
their various addresses (USM and email), their many phone and fax numbers,
and other pertinent info (party, salary, etc.). Anyone can have a copy when I
finish it. I hope to make it fairly administration-independent so it will
last and will probably set up a process on CompuServe so that public can send
in updates as officials are un-appointed, die and/or are voted out of office,
etc.

4. Eventually, we'll do an anonymous posting to a massive number of Govt
sites inviting WBlowers to post to the list and inviting Press people to log
on and download the dirt.

I will be at the Modern Times bookstore event on March 7th in San Francisco
if anyone wants to discuss this. I would also dearly like to attend CFP, but
I haven't yet found a way to do it without money (anyone who knows a way I
can volunteer my way in and help out please say so - I'll sweep up after,
anything...).

  d2t





