From: "L. Detweiler" <ld231782@longs.lance.colostate.edu>
Date: Wed, 29 Dec 93 20:33:03 PST
To: cypherwonks@lists.eunet.fi
Subject: Cypherpunk Credit Union
Message-ID: <199312300432.VAA27804@longs.lance.colostate.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Hello cy{ph,b}er{wo,pu}nks. I wanted to follow up on a posting by
B.Stewart who said that the cypherpunks are putting together a
cash credit union over the Internet. I have a few questions about
this.

1. Do you have to join the CA cypherpunks to learn about this?
Obviously you guys have been working on this a long time, and as
long as I was on the list I barely saw any peep about it.

2. Is this a private development group? Is it open to anyone who
wishes to join? If so, are cy{b,ph}erwonks allowed to join in the
development? We are interested in these kinds of projects.

3. Do you have a mailing list dedicated to this project alone or
other internet development projects? We know about the
cypherpunks list but there are rumors that there are some other
development lists `behind the scenes' -- are these open to the
public?

4. If any of your projects are indeed secret, why are many
cypherpunks actively engaged in a campaign on the imp-interest
list (Internet Mercantile Protocols)? Why don't you just stick to
your own project and let the Internet sort out which protocol is
more acceptable to the world-at-large?

5. What about the rumors that seem to be confirmed by what
B.Stewart said about evading tax laws and black marketeering,
that the cypherpunk credit union is actually a surreptitious
front for plans to provide money laundering over the Internet?

6. Again, if this is a public project, why is there so little
documentation available? There doesn't seem to be any on
soda.berkeley.edu, and many of my requests elsewhere have been
ignored.

7. What is the David Chaum connection to all this? I know that he
met with E.Hughes to discuss plans but are the Cypherpunks to be
understood as the U.S.-based Chaum group?

Thanks in advance for any information, I hope we can get more
cooperation where our goals overlap; it seems to me like we have
many common goals.





