From: Matt Blaze <mab@crypto.com>
Date: Fri, 11 Jun 93 19:28:11 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Privacy panel at USENIX Conference
Message-ID: <9306120218.AA07373@crypto.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Anyone who's going to be attending USENIX the week after next will want
to make sure not to miss the privacy panel, to be held Friday afternoon
(First session after lunch, I think).   The topic to be
discussed is anonymity on the net...

Here's the official announcement:

	  USENIX SUMMER 1993 TECHNICAL CONFERENCE

	           June 21 -25, 1993
		    Cincinnati, Ohio


Privacy Panel: Anonymity Servers - Finding The Bounds of Rights

This USENIX Panel session will address anonymity servers,
systems serving to sanitize e-mail and NetNews postings in
order to conceal the source.   We will explore the legal and
ethical issues involved, and try to shed some light on the
subtle complexities involving "the bounds of rights"
such systems pose.  Some of the issues are considerably
more complex than they might first appear.

Our panel will consist of Dan Appelman, John Gilmore,
Johan ("Julf") Helsingius, and will be convened by Mike O'Dell.
Biographies of the participants follow.

Dan Appelman, Panelist

Dan Appelman is a lawyer who practices computer and
telecommunications law from his office in Palo Alto, California. 
He also teaches a course in telecommunications policy, law and
regulation and has written and lectured about the legal issues in
both the telecommunications and data processing industries.  Dan
is the lawyer the USENIX Association and several other amusing
high-tech enterprises. He is a partner in the law firm of Heller,
Ehrman, White & McAuliffe.  

John Gilmore, Panelist

Among his other interests and accomplishments,
John Gilmore is a dedicated champion of civil liberties in
cyberspace.  John was a cofounder of the Electronic Frontier Foundation
and has campaigned aggressively for public availability of
high-quality encryption systems.  He was employee number five at
Sun Microsystems, may well have written more APL interpreters
than any other single human, and his most recent business
venture is the founding of Cygnus Support, a software
support company dedicated to the commercial viability of
free software.  He notes that he has never had time to
attend college or buy a suit.

Johan Helsingius, Panelist

The last time anyone really referred to Johan Helsingius using his
family name was while he was doing his military service long ago. As the
memories are not too fond, he prefers to be called "Julf", a name based
on a play on words involving 3 languages.  He has been heavily
involved in all manner of European Unix-related activities
for longer than he cares to remember.  He founded and still runs two
successful consultancy and training companies, Penetron
and Penetic, which manage to fund his well-developed tastes
for global travel and exploring the native arcania.  
Most recently Julf established an anonymity server, anon.penet.fi,
that quickly became the most popular anonymous posting service
on the Internet with more than 20,000 users.  Although he
is based in downtown Helsinki, Julf tends 
to spend most of his time in airport departure lounges.

Mike O'Dell, Provocateur

Mike O'Dell is Vice-president of the USENIX
Association and he is also Editor-in-Chief of
the USENIX journal, Computing Systems.
When he is not busy doing either of those two things,
he is Vice-president of Engineering at UUNET Technologies, Inc.,
a commercial IP and UUCP connectivity provider.
Mike's role in this panel, however, is to reprise his occasional
role as Resident Crank and thereby provoke a lively analysis
of the issues.





