From: "L. Detweiler" <ld231782@longs.lance.colostate.edu>
Date: Sun, 5 Dec 93 23:13:12 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Cypherpunk Archives
Message-ID: <9312060711.AA05045@longs.lance.colostate.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Hello, I have been looking all over for cypherpunk archives. Could
someone tell me where to find them? Is there an FTP site somewhere? Why
has it taken so long to get them together? If I find a server, will
someone volunteer to send me their collections? (My collection is quite
thorough but I have a lot of private mail with other cypherpunks,
particularly the leaders, mixed up in it, and if I put mine online I
might accidentally reveal some of the private mail, unless I go through
it painstakingly to remove all the incriminating ones, which would take
quite awhile because they are quite littered with them, and it would be
exceptionally painful for me to look at, to notice how long I was being
manipulated, molested, and betrayed, and how others and their pet
projects were being suppressed with tentacle attacks, so generally it
wouldn't be a good idea for me to go back through my archives like
this, although it is certainly possible that I will do so, if no one
else volunteers, just out of the venemous spite cultivated in me by
this corrupt farce that masquerades as a movement, in fact I consider
it all `ammunition' in a kind of uplifting way, to be used as a
countermeasure against cyberspatial terrorists who are poisoning
Cyberspace, but no one has noticed yet, but increasingly everyone
understands that the Cryptoanarchists are completely subversive at
heart and must be pursued and oppressed, even though it is a grisly
task that few have the balls for, and quite a few have fainted in the
sight of the blood.)

I heard that the leaders were opposed to archives for some reason or
another. Something about it being like an NSA surveillance procedure. I
think the problem is that it could capture quite a few of the Leader
Tentacles. Oh well.





