From: Chael Hall <nowhere@chaos.bsu.edu>
Date: Thu, 2 Sep 93 10:49:42 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Chaos up and running
Message-ID: <9309020948.AA00514@chaos.bsu.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text



I know, long time, no post...  Well, I have been very busy this summer.
The end result is that my machine (chaos) is finally online.  I will be
running an anonymous remailer (maybe more than one) from this site and
intend to run a pseudonymous system like anon.penet.fi here.  I have
implemented it and need a little help incorporating PGP encryption.
The machine is in a secure area and is under the exclusive control of
me.

At the moment, I am prepared to provide accounts to those who are willing
to help improve the system in some way.  If you feel that you can contribute,
there are several avenues by which you can do so.  For example (this is
not an exhaustive list):

     1.  Upload cypherpunks-related files to the anonymous FTP area.
     2.  Telnet or rlogin to chaos.bsu.edu (147.226.53.28) and login
         as guest.  Follow the instructions to request an account.
     3.  Write me (nowhere@chaos.bsu.edu or root@chaos.bsu.edu or
         nowhere@bsu-cs.bsu.edu or chall@bsu.edu or 00CCHALL@bsuvc.bsu.edu)
         with a request for an account.

If you choose either option two or three above, please tell me what you
intend to accomplish through having this account and in what positive ways
your having an account will impact my system.  Odds are, you will be accepted.

There is great potential in having this system on the Internet.  I am creating
a mail server to aid in discussion about the direction that chaos is going to
head.  Anyone who would like input on this please send a request to be put
on the mail server and I will set it up when we get a few brains together.

This is just a quick note (it's lunchtime in Indiana) so if I glossed over
anything or neglected to mention something, let me know.  The following
addresses might be of interest to you:

     remailer@chaos.bsu.edu
     anon.ping@chaos.bsu.edu and anon.help@chaos.bsu.edu

For a list of anon.* addresses for specific functions, finger anon@chaos.bsu.edu

We were having some lookup problems since chaos has only been online for two
days...  Please mail my nowhere@bsu-cs.bsu.edu account if you cannot access the
system for any reason.

Thanks,

Chael Hall

-- 
Chael Hall				nowhere@chaos.bsu.edu
Chaos Unlimited				nowhere@bsu-cs.bsu.edu



