From: mikeingl@news.delphi.com (MIKEINGLE@DELPHI.COM)
Date: Fri, 29 Oct 93 20:59:10 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Get this (from alt.security.pgp)...
Message-ID: <9310300355.AA11168@news.delphi.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



>Newsgroups: alt.security.pgp,talk.politics.crypto,comp.org.eff.talk
>Path: news.delphi.com!noc.near.net!howland.reston.ans.net!spool.mu.edu!sgiblab!rtech!amdahl!netcomsv!netcom.com!strnlght
>From: strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight)
>Subject: L'Envoi
>Message-ID: <strnlghtCFoIwF.IqG@netcom.com>
>Followup-To: poster
>Organization: DSI/USCRPAC
>Date: Fri, 29 Oct 1993 22:09:50 GMT
>Lines: 60
>Xref: news.delphi.com alt.security.pgp:5751 talk.politics.crypto:1071 comp.org.eff.talk:20845

When I began participating in cryto discussions here, there were several
issues of interest to me. One was to encourage RSADSI to permit a
"U.S.-legal" version of PGP. I have worked behind the scenes with RSA to
encourage that, and it now appears that with ViaCrypt that goal has been
reached for DOS, and one assumes soon for Unix and the Mac.

Another was to make it clear that I thought both that pgp 1.x and 2.x
were infringements of PKP's patents in the U.S. and those who encouraged
or supported that were acting in a counterproductive way to RSA's
permitting a licensed version. I've made my views very clear on this,
and now that ViaCrypt is out, the issue is somewhat stale.

A third was my concern that PGP2.x was the result of violating U.S. law.
Since a Grand Jury is now investigating this matter, I am happy to leave
it, whatever the outcome, in the hands of the professionals.

I claim no personal credit for any of the above developments.

Along the way I electronically met many colleages who vigorously but
civilly disagreed with some of my views and advocacies. They have earned
my undying respect and admiration.

I also met some who were, not to put too fine a point on it, badly in
need of having their mouths washed out with soap. They will remain in
memory for who they have shown themselves to be.

My biggest single disappointment was with Mike Godwin and EFF. I had
considered them to be professionals working on issues I supported. I now
believe they are petty special pleaders riding a particular hobby horse,
and to some extent a toy of their major funders. They have, again in my
view, shown themselves not above both inaccurate propaganda statements,
and a complete inability to acknowledge and correct such errors when they
arise.

Thanks to the many who sent me e-mails of support during this whole
experience. Thanks also also to the few who had genuine disagreements
and expressed them civilly in e-mail.

Since the main issues of concern to me now seem to be well in train, it's
time to use my energies in other ways. Thus I am removing
talk.politics.crypto and alt.security.pgp from my reading lists. I am
always available via e-mail, and would welcome news from colleagues who
wish to take the trouble to write me on how Phil Zimmerman is doing, how
the Grand Jury proceedings are coming along and with what result, and
when "U.S.-legal" Mac and Unix versions of PGP become available.

For those who are curious, when I need encryption my current tools of
choice are TechMail for correspondence flowing via POP Mail servers, and
MacRipem for point-to-point traffic to other Macs. I am also
experimenting with the new Mac System 7 Pro and an illustrative
application Apple sent to developers that handles internet mail within
it. I understand Ripem Mac will fit into this model and accept the
System 7 Pro signer keys for encryption, and I'm going to work with that
as well.

David

-- 
David Sternlight         When the mouse laughs at the cat,
                         there is a hole nearby.--Nigerian Proverb




