From: jdblair@nextsrv.cas.muohio.edu (John Blair)
Date: Sat, 1 May 93 19:15:31 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: questions...
Message-ID: <9305020221.AA04215@ nextsrv.cas.muohio.EDU >
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Hello, all.  I'm new to this mailing list, but I've been following it for
about 1/2 a week now, and I think I've found my niche.  However, I've got a
few questions that I was wondering if someone could help me with.

1)  Is there a suggested, general purpose book on cryptography that would
introduce me to the basics, and expand into more of the theory?  I'm decent
at math, but its definately not me strong point.

2)  I've downloaded to source code for Mac PGP from soda.berkeley.edu. Is there
an executable version available?  I haven't learned C yet, and I don't have
easy access to a C compiler, although I'm pretty sure I can take care of it
if I have to.

Also, on another note.  I've noticed the discussion about passing out
information at Raves.  The idea sounds like a good one, but is IMHO a definite
long shot.  Most of the ravers that I know a definate math-phobes, and
paradoxically practically technophobes.  If not technophobes, they would rather
not deal with it except for their weekly rush.  Still, I like the idea of 
passing stuff out there.  For at least every 50 people who go "huh?" there will
be someone who goes "yeah!" and explains it to his friends.  I would pass out 
info here in the Cincinatti area when I go, and at other times I could give the
leaflets to a friend who is more of a raver, and just tell him to scatter them
about.  Someone will read it, and catch on, and that will be worth it.

Now, this may sound like a stupid q, but does gzip decompress the ZIP format
that you say the info you have is in?  In my experience, ZIP has been a DOS 
compressor, and I am more of a Mac/Unix person.  Again, if necessary, I can
take care of it.

later,

john blair.
jdblair@nextsrv.cas.muohio.edu      
data is fluid.   will do multimedia for food- contact me.




