From: crunch@netcom.com (John Draper)
Date: Tue, 27 Apr 93 11:39:20 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Rave on...
Message-ID: <9304271839.AA26005@netcom4.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



  At the last Mt View Cypherpunks meeting,  it was discussed about ways
in which we can get the word out to as many people as possible.    

  I have an idea on yet another way on how this can be done.    Would
like to get input and feedback on this from the rest of the group.

  One such place where lots of people meet are RAVES.   My proposal is
to set up a room with a bunch of donated PC's Macs or whatever,   and
have a booth set up where people can purchase PGP diskettes for slightly
above cost of the diskettes.    People attending raves can purchase
their PGP diskettes and on the spot,  generate their keys.    They can
sign each other's keys there,   and handout literature can be made
available for anyone attending that describes the "Clipper" proposals,
and suggestions on what people can do to resist further government
control over private cryptography.

  Already,  at most raves,  there are demonstrations set up for things
like the new "body synth",  VR demos,  and other things,  so this should
fit right in.

  I'm in contact with a number of RAVE organizors,  and plan on contacting
them.    If enough people from Cypherpunks are interested in bringing their
portables or small PC's,  Macs or whatever to raves,  this might be a
very good way of reaching the younger people who might not otherwize be 
plugged into the mainstream media like TV,  or newspapers,  or whatever.

  For those interested in donating a Sat evening,  and wanting to have
a little fun,  by bringing their computers to future raves,   please 
send me your Email address,  and specifics on any equipment you might 
want to bring,  I can put you in touch with the appropriate organizers.
Anyway,   I'm open for input on this,  and how we can get the word out.

  At the Cypherpunks dinner,  I mentioned to John Gilmore and others about
the possibility of doing short video "skits" and "infomercials" on
some hypothetical scenerios of a "Faschiist government" that outlaws
encryption.   We can make it fun and entertaining,  and I don't think I
would have a problem proposing it to those people capable of producing
this video.    We will need actors,   and some people to write up the
"skit".    I don't think we would have any problem convincing KQED,  or
any other TV station to air it.    It would reach a lot of people,  and
is a good instrument in getting the word out.

  I talked to Wes Thomas about this,  and we can set up an ad hoc get
together in Berkeley and perhaps Eric Hughes and John Gilmore can
attend and we can "ad lib" for practice a few hypothetical skits
and vide tape it some evening.    I think it would be fun,   and even
John Gilmore might enjoy participating in this fun activity.

Rave on - D00ds!!

JD





