From: Phiber Optik <phiber@eff.org>
Date: Sat, 6 Feb 93 23:44:31 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: (Non)Privacy in Phone System...
Message-ID: <199302070743.AA14539@eff.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


My last message was about LMOS/MLT, and MLT's monitoring capabilities of
subscriber lines.  Another phone company testing system worth mentioning
is SARTS (and DACS and SMAS.  That's three, but they're related.)  SARTS
is the Switched Access Remote Test System, and is used in testing special
service circuits.  And what's special service?  A lot of things that AREN'T
POTS (Plain Old Telephone Service).  Anything from WATS service, to digital
carriers (DDS, T1, etc.), and so on.  And it's the hard working men and women
of the aptly named Special Services Center (or just "Special Services") who
oversee nearly every aspect of installation and maintenance.  Ah, yes.
(Clears throat)  The reason I mention them is because every digital carrier
goes through your friendly neighborhood BOC central office, whether it be
a company's private carrier or someone's dedicated connection to the Internet
(EFF's, toad's, etc.).  Like MLT is a system used to test subscriber lines
in real time, so SARTS is a system used to test special service circuits.
In conjunction with SMAS (Switched Maintenance Access System), and the ability
to jack-in with their favorite test equipment (such as the much liked T-BERD),
together they make up an unbeatable arsenal in trouble shooting.  So why do
they screw up your leased-line service?  There are three rules in maintenance:
Training, training, and, of course, training.  Or lack thereof.
The lovely system which complements these, and even supercedes the need for
SMAS points, is DACS, the Digital Access and Cross-connect System.  One of its
most notable abilities, is providing per-channel 64kbps (DS0) electronic
cross-connection and test access to individual channels, IN ANALOG OR DIGITAL
FORM, from a T1 (DS1).  Sounds neat.  The FBI says "It can't be done!  You
have to make it built in!"  But it IS built in, they're just not allowed to
play with it (or are they anyway?)  Life is funny sometimes.

I'm going to pause for now, and concentrate on my Sherlock Holmes movie.
I'll see if my messages are well received, and pick it up tomorrow.





