From: nowhere@bsu-cs.bsu.edu (Chael Hall)
Date: Wed, 3 Mar 93 14:29:42 PST
To: dclunie@pax.tpa.com.au (David Clunie)
Subject: Re: ANON: My remailer
In-Reply-To: <9303032153.AA17736@britt>
Message-ID: <9303032218.AA03614@bsu-cs.bsu.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


>What they probably mean is it is against their system administrator's
>policy ! I would be very surprised if the governing body of the
>university had a policy regarding this !
>
>Not that you are in a position to argue of course.
>
>david

     Uhg...  This is not a good sign.  My remailer is running on a
university computer system as well.  I have been trying to get a SLIP
connection for the past few months for my 386BSD system so that I can
take part of the load off of their system and provide anonymity on my
local hardware.  The sysadmin don't know about my remailer and I am
trying to keep them from finding out.  Right now, my mail volume is so
high that those messages are cloaked by the rest of my incoming and
outgoing mail.  Plus, it isn't used that much.  I have approval for
my mail servers, because we worked out a modification to slow down my
program so it wouldn't flood the system with sendmail processes.
Unfortunately, I don't have approval for the remailer, but at the
same time, there has been no mention of it.

     In the login banner, it says, "This system will be monitored for
unethical and malicious behavior."  That sort of leaves it up to them
to decide whether or not to shut down the remailer and they can just
give a quick "it's not ethical" reason.  Luckily, they like me.  :)
In the long run, I am working on a solution, but money is tight.
Otherwise, I would have a T-1 coming directly into my house and all
would be fine; well at least better.

     Enough rambling--I'm sorry to see a remailer demise and hope
that mine will not fall under the unethical clause here.  If I find
a solution, you will be the first to know.

Chael Hall

--
Chael Hall
nowhere@bsu-cs.bsu.edu, 00CCHALL@BSUVC.BSU.EDU, CHALL@CLSV.Charon.BSU.Edu
(317) 285-3648 after 5 pm EST




