From: fergp@sytex.com (Paul Ferguson)
Date: Sat, 10 Jul 93 08:43:10 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Racal Datacryptor
Message-ID: <0L0g7B1w165w@sytex.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


While looking through my weekly snail after getting home last night, I
opened up a advertising card deck put together by Info Security News.
One particular advertisement got my attention, which I am going to
send for more technical information and perhaps a catalogue. (I have
used Racal-Datacom routing, bridging and mux equipment extensively,
and all-in-all, they're pretty solid boxes. Caveat: This point, however,
has no reflection on the quality of their s-boxes.)
 
Here is the complete text on the postcard:
 
"Encryption You Can Depend On!
 
Racal-Datacom, a world leader in data encryption, offers a full range
of high-quality Datacryptor (Registered Trademark) encryptors for use
in Government, Banking and Finance, R&D, and any application that
needs secure data transmissions!
 
Datacryptor highlights include:
 
- Automatic/manual key changes
- Generates and stores up to 400 keys
- Easy to manage and program
- Centarlized of front-panel operation
- Protects Dial-up, Leased Line, or Shared Packet Transmissions
- Up to E-1 rates
- DES and proprietary algorithms
- ANSI X9.17
- FED-STD 1027
- RSA Public Key
- And More!
 
For more information on Racal-Datacom Datacryptors, return this card
or call 1-800-RACAL-55."
 
The address (should anyone be interested) is:
 
Racal-Datacom
ATTN: Pre-Sales Support
155 Swanson Road
Boxborough, MA 01719-9980
 
(The small, black and white picture on the postcard reveals a small
box, not unlike an external modem, with two key-locks on the front
panel.)
 

Paul Ferguson               |  "Confidence is the feeling you get
Network Integrator          |   just before you fully understand
Centreville, Virginia USA   |   the problem."
fergp@sytex.com             |      - Murphy's 7th Law of Computing
 
               Quis Custodiet Ipsos Custodes?




