From: hfinney@shell.portal.com (Hal Finney)
Date: Fri, 26 Nov 93 19:13:59 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: META: Filter Detweiler
Message-ID: <9311270312.AA15108@jobe.shell.portal.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

It appears to me that Detweiler is not receiving the list; for example,
he apparently didn't see the posting giving the names of officials at
his university until it was forwarded to him several days later.

I would favor adding a filter preventing Detweiler's messages from
appearing on the list.  I know that this is a big step to take but his
messages have become so deranged that they have, IMO, no redeeming
value.  Whatever validity his original points may have had (and I do
think there was a kernel of a valid point there), his mental state is
such that his postings are now worthless.

I know that I can easily filter his messages myself, but it still wastes
list bandwidth and, worse, distracts people's attention from other,
more worthwhile, posts.  By lowering the quality of the list as a whole
Detweiler discourages people from subscribing.  New subscribers may
take his rants as typical of what we discuss here.  We are all harmed
by having people who could make a contribution leave the list, or be
distracted by Detweiler's messages and the responses to him.

Unless others strongly disagree, I urge Eric to install software to
eliminate Detweiler's postings.  I believe the evidence is strong
enough that the anon.penet.fi account nicknamed "S.Boxx" is actually
a Detweiler pseudonym that it should be filtered as well.  If other
pseudonyms appear I suppose we would have to consider them on a case
by case basis.

In order to conserve list bandwidth, let's try to avoid "me, too"
postings.  If you disagree, it's worth discussing, IMO, but if you
agree I'd suggest that messages be sent directly to Eric at
cypherpunks-request@toad.com or hughes@ah.com.

Hal Finney
hfinney@shell.portal.com

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.3a

iQCVAgUBLPaZZagTA69YIUw3AQHSnAP8Cbo7o6622IpA7HwY8lQAm6h66YE9wCrc
rkCZK2F6KnVRvuTxXbotvdx/RxQZPtIwZa6SmU8H1H/d/SAQSB74bavDsrzJRl5I
V5BNPmVL+zFSPZWgfXOQ8Apb3KTrtWmTyhXIgRbhJle3kyO5YJU2km50j98ZoN5d
2cPpzM0wHxA=
=hgGz
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----




