From: an12070@anon.penet.fi (S.Boxx)
Date: Wed, 17 Nov 93 05:14:22 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: The Tectonics of Truth
Message-ID: <9311171312.AA14658@anon.penet.fi>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


The Truth is sometimes subtle and delicate, like a flower petal.

Sometimes it erupts in violence, like a volcano.

* * *

I am feeble and weak. I was standing in a room filled with many diverse
instruments. The noise was a great cacaphony. I had an adjustable
tuning fork. I gently changed the pitch so that it matched individual
instruments in the `audience' and matched their pitch. Then, I gently
changed the frequency, and they changed accordingly. Next I changed
entire groups of instruments at a time, and the cacaphony decreased.
Some instruments were extremely tenacious, like the drums, that
continued to bang around ignorantly and arrogantly.

At last, all the instruments were in a single tone. Om.

* * *

S. Boxx is a giant with great strength. He came into a room filled with
many diverse instruments. The noise was a great cacaphony. He had
massive muscles. He jumped to a great height and shook the whole room,
so that many individual instruments were shaken from their place. Then
he yelled loudly, and many others shook with the violence. Some
instruments were broken, like the delicate strings, and they were
flayed and useless.

After awhile, the whole room resonated in a single tone. Truth.

* * *

Sometimes, the Truth is like plate tectonics. The lies and obfuscations
promote the intense heat and friction at the plate's interface. For
long periods there is no apparent motion, only tiny jerks and slips,
with the gradual and subtle shifts in opinion. Sometimes, however, a
massive stress is released and a gigantic earthquake ensues, shaking
many and killing some with falling debris. The shock waves are felt in
far distant places. People remember the calamitous disaster for many
years afterwards. It reverberates through the media and everyone's
consciences. It inevitably leads to reforms in the structures of
buildings to resist the deadly force -- and a bit of future paranoia by everyone.

Recently, there was a earthquake on the scale of 10 in California. It
was documented in RISKS 15.25. The aftershocks and tremors are still being felt.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
To find out more about the anon service, send mail to help@anon.penet.fi.
Due to the double-blind, any mail replies to this message will be anonymized,
and an anonymous id will be allocated automatically. You have been warned.
Please report any problems, inappropriate use etc. to admin@anon.penet.fi.




