From: pfarrell@cs.gmu.edu (Pat Farrell)
Date: Sun, 24 Jan 93 10:00:14 PST
To: david.brooks@cutting.hou.tx.us
Subject: NUpop is the answer was Re: PGP on BBS
Message-ID: <9301241756.AA14778@cs.gmu.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


I don't know if the sources are available, NorthWestern's
NUpop is the key to making PGP acceptable to masses of
not-very-computer-literate users. Ask archie for nupop103.zip

NUpop is a PC (MS-DOS) program that uses the PC as a computer.
It uses SMTP to send mail and receives mail via POP. It works
on networks and thru dialup. It works with SLIP and more
simply over a reliable ASCII connection.

It is a great program. CUA, mouse, folders, auto sigs, etc.
All it needs is to have a "encryption outgoing" flag
in its "group" (alias) directory, and pump the message thru
PGP in filter mode. On receipt, find the PGP headers,
push thru the filter, and show the clear text.

I haven't looked for either the PGP or NUpop sources, but 
I'd expect this to be a near trivial hack. It may even be
already done.

NUpop (and its Mac equivalent Eudora) are the right way to get
users on the net. Using a PC as a VT100 to login to a full
blown Unix system, using vi to edit mail, etc. is near
criminal. NUpop makes it easy enuff for econ profs.
(Seriously, I set up NUpop for an econ prof here last weekend.
He loves it. He is definitely not a Unix wizard.)

If NUpop source is not available, then we'll have to reverse
engineer something similar. I've learned how NUpop does the
communications, and it is straight-forward (also in the RFCs
if you care to look) I thought about doing a
Windows-only program, but wonder if we really have to
support diehard DOS users on ATs and less.

I've been meaning to ask about source availablity. I'll
do so now, and probably have an answer tomorrow.


Pat Farrell,      Grad Student                       pfarrell@cs.gmu.edu
Department of Computer Science, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA
PGP key available via finger or request           #include standard.disclaimer
Write PKP. Offer money for a personal use license for RSA.




