From: George A. Gleason <gg@well.sf.ca.us>
Date: Thu, 29 Apr 93 03:01:27 PDT
To: tcmay@netcom.com
Subject: Re:  Tough Choices: PGP vs. RSA Data Security
Message-ID: <199304291001.AA23207@well.sf.ca.us>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


At risk of getting the goats of some friends of mine who read the list, I'm
tending to agree with Tim's ideas here.  Brief conversation with Jim Bidzos
at the cypunx mtg indicated that he is very much up for something along the
lines of a personal encryption product that would meet our needs.  From a
business perspective it's easy to see why RSA haven't gone for this yet; a
copmany needs to concentrate at first on the most likely profitable lines of
operation, and once that's solid, go for the wider market.  Right now we
have an incredible array of crypto talent which can be brought into a
cooperative arrangement in developing additional RSA products.  The result
may turn out to be as good as the best potentials of PGP, and at the same
time, support for RSA's position vis-a-vis any possible govt attempt to go
after the patents.  

I don't see this as a matter of withdrawing support from the people and
efforts which brought forth PGP.  They're going to have their hands full
doing *something* about Clipper right now, and that will deserve a lot of
support.  PGP has fulfilled its promise in many ways.  It pre-empted the
chance of an early govt ban on private crypto.  It stimulated wide interest
in crypto.  It also provided a great market demonstration for the potential
of an affordable strong personal encryption program.  By this time, Jim
Bidzos has a great case to make to his stockholders, for the business
potential of personal cryptography.  And PGP also brought together a wide
community of cryptologists and programmers and end-users and so on.  

Consider a band who release a record on an underground label, which then
makes it onto college radio in a big way, and the band gets a chance to get
major distribution from that.  They'd be dumb not to, as long as they can
keep their artistic autonomy; and a smart record company executive knows
that it's better not to try to tamper with a Good Thing.  

So here we are at the next step; public keys for the masses have the chance
to come aboveground in a big way, and achieve even wider distribution and
use.  

Now if those carrots aren't tasty enough; consider the stick: there is a
long history of the govt doing in its adversaries by divide-&-conquer, along
the lines of getting all kinds of infighting going among people who would be
logical allies.  Read the history of COINTELPRO for many examples.  A major
rift between PGP and RSA folks will only serve the interests of those who
would rather both systems be banned. On the other hand, increased
cooperation builds strength against possible governmental action in the
future.  

-gg




