From: rclark@nyx.cs.du.edu (Robert W. F. Clark)
Date: Fri, 25 Jun 93 01:43:51 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Thanks, anon
Message-ID: <9306250844.AA10053@nyx.cs.du.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


n12070@anon.penet.fi (Anonymous dude) writes:

>I considered bringing up this little anecdote that happened to me in
>`real time' but decided against it, but now can't resist while the
>subject is in the list's psyche and nanosecond attention span:

Thanks.  I'm geographically and culturally isolated in Indiana.
You warn that your article is tedious, but it is no such thing.
Thanks for posting it.  

It is perversely pleasing to me to know someone else on the list
went through this sort of cop crap.  Of course, I was at least
technically in violation of the law, but hey.  They went after
practically everyone I knew, for the vile crime of having me in
their address books.  I wrote an article about that experience
which should appear in the next Phrack.

So that you won't feel that your anecdote was tedious, which
it certainly was not, you might want to check mine out (it
clocks in at about five to six times as long as yours.)

>Thanks for listening to all this, it is immensely therapeutic for me
>and hopefully some insight is contained herein to minimize a burden for you.

Thanks for sending it out; it was nicely written, and concise.

Bet they never see the computer again, though.  Either someone ripped
it off for their personal use, or for quick cash, and in either case
they would have got them by now.  They may just have hassled you as
a last resort when the trail went cold.  

Police are, indeed, ungrateful brutes of the worst dye.

Well, good luck, and I hope all that nasty stuff is over for you.
Cop betrayals and "investigations" usually leave a bitter taste in
the mouths of their targets, especially since cops can get nasty
when they're not finding anything.  Ah well.

----
Robert W. Clark
rclark@nyx.cs.du.edu   PGP signature available by mail or finger



