From: tcmay@netcom.com (Timothy C. May)
Date: Thu, 22 Apr 93 15:58:13 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Being Reasonable to Reporters
In-Reply-To: <9304222118.AA05266@snark.shearson.com>
Message-ID: <9304222258.AA28208@netcom3.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Sorry, gang, but I just can't let this one pass without commenting:

Perry Metzger writes:

> I've watched the Libertarian Party self destruct because many
> activists are such fools that they can't make a distinction between
> whats important and random rebellion for the sake of rebellion. People
> will refuse to be polite, refuse to phrase their arguments
> comprehensably, refuse to be nice to reporters, and refuse to appear
> to be reasonable or even rational, and then later on they wonder why
> it is that everyone makes fun of them and no one listens.

Speaking for myself, I've been *very* polite to reporters. I can only
hope Perry is speculating about some Cypherpunks I haven't heard
about. John Gilmore, Eric Hughes, myself, and many other members of
the list have been quite reasonable, quite articulate, and quite
"nice" in our comments to reporters.

I hosted Kevin Kelly, Steven Levy, and Julian Dibbell each for several
hours, at their request, at my home in Aptos. These were for the
various pieces coming out in their publications. I answered their
questions, outlined the issues of privacy and crypto as I saw them,
explained the workings of new protocols, and so on.

Some of them showed up at our meetings, where they were well-treated.
The Levy piece is already out, in "Wired," and I've seen the draft of
Kelly's piece coming out soon in "Whole Earth Review." Neither paint
us as Texas Tower whackos nor as blue-sky dreamers. These journalists
are very well-versed in the issues. 

Julian Dibbell's forthcoming piece I haven't seen, but I doubt it will
be a hatchet job or otherwise treat us as crazies.

I think this qualifies as being nice and reasonable to reporters.

Note: I did not talk to John Markoff this time around, but I have in
the past. My understanding is that others talked to him.


Cheers.

-Tim May






