From: an12070@anon.penet.fi (Hitler )
Date: Fri, 24 Dec 93 11:49:52 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: pseudoparanoia and poison
Message-ID: <9312241856.AA11601@anon.penet.fi>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


We just wanted to let you know that we are going to really start firing up
all our *real* tentacles over the next few weeks beyond what we have already
been using. We gave you the chance to give up after the attacks from 
an12070 alone, an obviously pseudonymous entry point. We have attempted
to adhere to a code of ethics for as long as possible and give you every
opportunity to surrender.  

But increasingly, to catch conspirators and saboteurs we must think and 
act like them. Since our previous efforts have been only marginally 
effective, we are going to shift our campaign to rely much more heavily 
on the same type of unidentifiable entry points that you promote. We have 
been stockpiling them over the past few months in preparation for exactly 
this kind of eventuality, hoping that we wouldn't have to resort to anything 
this treacherous. (Some in important positions may have noticed the `blip'
increase in new Internet subscribers lately at the public domain sites around
`out there'. But we won't be more specific, so that you can play the 
delightful game of `name that tentacle' without meddlesome biases.)

It's extremely costly and burdensome to support such an infrastructure, 
especially at the scale you work at, as you are well aware, but our 
members are as fanatical as you are and as creative and ingenious 
with the coordination. And careful study of your own techniques and 
software has given us an excellent starting point!

Like S.Boxx was fond of saying, everyone *knows* that `he' is pseudonymous.
And what havoc `he' has wreaked! Imagine what we can do with *true*
tentacles, *more* than all of yours combined! All exercised with the utmost,
meticulous, professional, untraceable, undetectable quality!

S.Boxx was just our warmup measure, our way of playing nice and hoping you
would relent. We had a lot of fun laughing together (or perhaps _at_ each
other!) but in war, allegiances are torn violently in the face of the Enemy.
One cannot have mercy on the Enemy, because the Enemy will not have mercy
on us. 

We are going to work into this nice and gentle, too, emulating exactly your 
own modus operandi. Of course, we didn't really give a damn about anyone 
guessing S.Boxx loyalties. It was part of the fun to watch people who
supposedly promote `privacy' to do everything possible to invade his! But 
these new tentacles will be *completely* indistinguishable from everyone 
else in cyberspace, *even* your brainwashed followers, we assure you. Oh,
and they will also be indistinguishable from all the *real* people who
have begun to understand the true extent of your own corruption.

And you will be meeting them in the most interesting places! On all the 
`key' mailing lists, in the newsgroups, and in your mailboxes, perhaps 
even in the published journals like RISKS and CUD. After all, if the Enemy 
points his gun at you, one has to be the first to draw if one wants to live. 

We will no longer trade our compassion for betrayal. We do not enjoy slowly
bleeding to death. Let us see how you enjoy the same experience. The most
effective poison is that which goes undetected to the end! Reminds us of
one of our favorite words, `insidious'. (Hee, hee.)

Yes, regrettably, it does lead to an extremely paranoid atmosphere where 
previously constructive activity is sabotaged, but as they say, all is fair 
in Love and War.  Fighting fire with fire and all that.

Hopefully, in the long run, the cure won't be worse than the malady, and 
the host will fight off the parasite instead of dying from it. The next 
few months will determine whether hair of the dog that bites can cure 
the illness.

Remember, ``On the internet, no one knows if you are a dog...''


-------------------------------------------------------------------------
To find out more about the anon service, send mail to help@anon.penet.fi.
Due to the double-blind, any mail replies to this message will be anonymized,
and an anonymous id will be allocated automatically. You have been warned.
Please report any problems, inappropriate use etc. to admin@anon.penet.fi.




