From: Dave Banisar <banisar@washofc.cpsr.org>
Date: Fri, 28 May 93 21:30:10 PDT
To: CYPHERPUNKS@toad.com
Subject: CPSR Seeks Clipper Docs
Message-ID: <9305281842.AA46660@hacker2.eff.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain




PRESS RELEASE
May 28, 1993

CPSR Seeks Clipper Documents -
Brings Suit Against NSA and National Security Council

	Washington, DC -- Computer Professionals for Social Responsibility 
filed suit today in federal district court seeking information about the 
government's controversial new cryptography proposal.  

	The "Clipper" proposal, announced by the White House at an April 16 
press conference, is based on a technology developed by the National Security 
Agency that would allow the government to intercept computer encoded 
information.  Law enforcement agencies say that capability this is necessary 
to protect court ordered wire surveillance.  

   But industry groups and civil liberties organizations have raised 
questions about the proposal.  They cite the risk of abuse, the potential 
loss in security and privacy, costs to US firms and consumers, and the 
difficulties enforcing the policy.

	Marc Rotenberg, CPSR Washington office director, said "The Clipper 
plan was developed behind a veil of secrecy.  It is not enough for the White 
House to hold a few press conferences.  We need to know why the standard was 
developed, what alternatives were considered, and what the impact will be on 
privacy. "

	"As the proposal currently stands, Clipper looks a lot like 'desktop 
surveillance,'" added Rotenberg.

	David Sobel, CPSR Legal Counsel, said "CPSR is continuing its 
oversight of federal cryptography policy.  These decisions are too important 
to made in secret, without public review by all interested parties."

	In previous FOIA suits, CPSR obtained records from the General 
Services Administration questioning the FBI's digital telephony plan, a 
legislative proposal to require that communications companies design wiretap 
capability.  More recently, CPSR obtained records through the FOIA revealing 
the involvement of the National Security Agency in the development of  
unclassified technical standards in violation of federal law.

	CPSR is a national membership organization, based in Palo Alto, CA.  
Membership is open to the public.  For more information about CPSR, contact 
CPSR, P.O. Box 717, Palo Alto, CA 9403, 415/322-3778 (tel), 415/322-3798 
(fax), cpsr@cpsr.org






