From: Hal <hfinney@shell.portal.com>
Date: Fri, 31 Dec 93 18:00:52 PST
To: Jim_Miller@bilbo.suite.com
Subject: Re: Anonymous Video on Demand
Message-ID: <199401010159.RAA25897@jobe.shell.portal.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Jim - That is a nice protocol.  Seems to work OK.  I had thought of
a variant:

Vendor creates a set of pairs of numbers and random DES keys:
(1,KEY1), (2,KEY2), (3,KEY3),...

These are sent via oblivious transfer to buyer such that he only gets
one but the vendor doesn't know which.  Suppose buyer gets (10,KEY10).

Buyer sends back a mapping of the numbers 1-N and a set of N movies.
He maps the number he got in step 1 (10 in my example) with the movie
he wants.

Vendor encrypts these movies with the corresponding numbered DES keys,
and sends them to buyer.  He will only be able to decrypt one of them.

These protocols have the obvious disadvantage of increasing the needed
bandwidth by a factor of N.  I guess we assume bandwidth is cheap.

Once I get the movie, what stops me from recording it and giving copies
to all my friends for free?  Nothing, as far as I can see.  Therefore,
it would be good to think of a system where N movies are broadcast all
the time (on N channels), all N encrypted, but with each person who has
paid only able to decrypt one of them.  You argued that people would just
share keys, but I don't think that is an issue since they might as well
just share movies.  This system is much more acceptable in terms of
bandwidth.  It would be interesting to think of a solution which worked
with this situation, where the encrypting keys are fixed.

The requirement is, given a set of keys, 1-N, which A knows, B ends up
knowing only key I, where I is chosen by B ahead of time, but A doesn't
know which key B got.  Off hand I don't see how to do this.

Hal Finney

P.S. with a little thought, a variant on my protocol can solve this,
and perhaps your protocol works too.  In step 1, A sends random keys
to B via oblivious transfer; in step 2, B sends a mapping of key numbers
and movies, pairing up the key he got and the movie he wants; in step 3,
which is different, A sends not the movies, but the movie keys which will
be used during the broadcast phase, encrypted with the random keys chosen
in step 1.  B is left with one key which will decrypt just the movie he
wants during the broadcast.

Maybe if this were done in tamper-proof chips like the encryption chips used
in current cable boxes it would be secure enough for most purposes, at least
as secure as current pay cable.




