From: nobody@Menudo.UH.EDU
Date: Thu, 9 Sep 93 16:07:27 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: REMAIL: cache
Message-ID: <199309092301.AA29183@Menudo.UH.EDU>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

Cypherpunks,

This is a test message of the caching implementation I've added to the
remailer elee9sf@menudo.uh.edu.  If you are reading this, it should be
working :-)

I implemented caching with three extra scripts: filer.pl, mailout.at,
and mailout.pl.

filer.pl accepts incoming messages and files them into a queue
directory, appending the time in seconds, minutes, hours, and the
process id number to the file.  Hopefully, this will store the file in
a random order with respect to the actual order they arrived in.

Instead of piping incoming mail to slocal.pl, which is what the
typical cypherpunks remailer does, it is piped to filer.pl which just
files the messages.

mailout.at is a script for the at command.  It invokes the mailout.pl
command, which mails out the queued messages, and reschedules itself
for midnight the next day.  Today, I scheduled for 18:00 CDT, so this
message should leave for cypherpunks@toad.com then.

I forgot to check to see if I'm in cron.allow; if so I'll change from
the at command to a crontab.

For the time being the remailer "flushes" its queue every night at
midnight.  After a while I'll make it less often, perhaps every other
day or every three days.  A week is probably too long :-)

mailout.pl is a script which opens the queue directory and gets a list
of files.  Every file in the directory is opened, piped to slocal.pl,
and unlinked.

Well, that's it in a nutshell.

Next up: padding messages, and an smtp package instead of sendmail.

<klbarrus@owlnet.rice.edu>

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.3a

iQCVAgUBLI+wM4OA7OpLWtYzAQGM2wQAulXlIz50z6fVPdWeHstdyFA5GgeCPUaO
XRWooj0PNPPRrAcfUQqFhhgTZibBDHP6qmOXGU4GWfYL6dqPJhCHTi6iBUOGWQ+2
K1+YHinz7h6vNTf1R9fCRElvH0tn5iwq3uR4ZWLqJhhxtD6Mv01qidOsUQIUfQ9G
oN2lT+JrkeU=
=RdzB
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----




