From: gnu (John Gilmore)
Date: Tue, 6 Jul 93 17:41:12 PDT
To: eff-staff@eff.org, gnu
Subject: Matchbook reminders for EFF / Cypherpunk members
Message-ID: <9307070041.AA17216@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


At a friend's house I found a matchbook printed up by NORML.  It
serves to advertise the organization, as well as providing information
useful during legal troubles.

It got me thinking about matchbooks or wallet cards as a good way to
make people aware of us.  (Matchbooks work better when your
organization is concerned with smokables...)  Someone mentioned a few
weeks ago that we need to have a wallet-sized card that reminds people
of their rights when they get into hassles.  Experience has shown that
we forget and bungle it, without a reminder.

The NORML front cover says:		Cypherpunk version (strawman):

	NORML				CYPHERPUNKS

	National Organization		Teaching, Learning,
	for the Reform of		and Deploying
	Marijuana Laws			Cryptographic Protection
	------------------
	1636 R. St., N.W.
	Washington, DC 20009

	spectron, cleveland, oh		<- whoever makes the matches

The spine:

	900-97-NORML			cypherpunks@toad.com

The back:

	Before you rat,			Big Brother's listenin'
	before you squeal,		Big Sister's watchin'.
	before you snitch,		Don't get cold feet,
	or cut a deal..			Use cryptographic stockin's.
	 Call NORML.

	900-97-NORML			...etc...
	(2.95 per minute
    You must be 18 or older to call)

The inside:

	* NEVER CONSENT TO A		Something very similar
	  SEARCH

	(even with nothing to hide)

	* NEVER ANSWER ANY
	  QUESTIONS

	(without an attorney)

	* CALL AN ATTORNEY IM-
	  MEDIATELY

	(or call NORML)

	900-97-NORML			EFF's phone number?

	(2.95 per minute
    You must be 18 or older to call)

	NOTE:  The live option is
	available only from 9 a.m. to 6
	p.m., EST, M-F.



A tract I cut out of a gay newspaper some years ago is in my
wallet now; its advice is:


	SILENCE = GOLDEN
ACT-UP/New York's clip-and-save guide to police intimidation

The following guidelines were formulated by legal advisors to ACT
UP/NY, but they apply to all gay men and lesbians and activists.

1. You do not have to talk to the police or FBI or any other
investigators.  You do not have to talk to them whether they come
to your house, on the street, if you've been arrested, or even if you
are in jail.  Only a court or a grand jury has legal authority to
compel testimony.

2.  You don't have to let the police or FBI into your home or office
unless they show you an arrest or search warrant which authorizes them
to enter that SPECIFIC place.

3.  If they do present a warrant, you do not have to tell them
anything other than your name and address.  You have a right to
observe what they do.

4.  Make written notes, including the agents' names, agency and badge
numbers.  Try to have other people present as witnesses and have them
make written notes, too.

5.  Anything you do say to any law enforcement officer may be used
against you and other people.

6.  If you do give the FBI or police information, it may mean that you
will have to testify to the same information at a trial or before a
grand jury.

7.  Lying to an FBI agent or other federal investigators is a crime.

8.  The best advice, if the FBI or police try to question you or to
enter your home or office without a warrant, is to JUST SAY NO!  Law
enforcement agents have a job to do and they are highly skilled at it.
Attempting to "outwit" them is very risky.  YOU CAN NEVER TELL HOW 
A SEEMINGLY HARMLESS BIT OF INFORMATION CAN HELP THEM HURT YOU OR
ANOTHER ACT UP MEMBER.

9.  The investigators may threaten you with a grand jury subpoena if
you don't give them information.  But you may get one anyway, and
anything you've already told them will be the basis for more detailed
questioning under oath.

10.  They may try to threaten or intimidate you by pretending to have
information about you ("We know what you've been doing, but if you
cooperate it will be all right.")  If you are concerned about this,
tell them you will consider talking to them with your lawyer present.

11.  If you are nervous about simply refusing to talk, you may find it
easier to tell them to contact your lawyer.  Once a lawyer is
involved, the agents usually pull back since they have lost their
power to intimidate.  If you are taken into police custory, once you
request an attorney, they MUST cease questioning until your lawyer is
present.  But remember, you don't have to answer their questions, even
if they keep asking.




