From: TO1SITTLER@APSICC.APS.EDU (Kragen Sittler)
Date: Tue, 13 Jul 93 23:10:37 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: sorry if you already read this, but...
Message-ID: <930714000544.1441@APSICC.APS.EDU>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


From:	SMTP%"more@hpcwire.ans.net" 13-JUL-1993 23:35:43.74
To:	to1sittler@apsicc.aps.edu
CC:	
Subj:	738 ANS CO+RE Security to Use RSA Public Key Cryptography

Date: Tue, 13 Jul 1993 22:38:28 -0700
From: More Select News <more@hpcwire.ans.net>
Message-Id: <199307140538.AA23787@hpcwire.ans.net>
To: to1sittler@apsicc.aps.edu
Subject: 738 ANS CO+RE Security to Use RSA Public Key Cryptography

ANS CO+RE Security to Use RSA Public Key Cryptography
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contacts:

ANS CO+RE Systems Inc.          RSA Data Security Inc.
Carol Harvey, Public Affairs    Kurt Stammberger, Technology Marketing
703/758-7700                    415/595-8782
harvey@ans.net                  kurt@rsa.com

           ANS CO+RE's Security Services to Incorporate
                   RSA Public Key Cryptography

REDWOOD CITY, CA and ELMSFORD, NY -- ANS CO+RE Systems Inc. announced major
new extensions to its advanced InterLock family of security services. The new
features focus around the incorporation of RSA Data Security Inc.'s Public
Key Cryptosystem. RSA's techniques are widely acknowledged as being the most
secure means of data encryption and authentication available today.

InterLock is a suite of security services that control access among segments
of an enterprise's private IP network and/or among multiple enterprises that
communicate over a IP private network. InterLock also controls access between
private networks and the public Internet. In addition to RSA key exchange-
enabled end-to-end encryption, InterLock services include TELNET, FTP, SMTP,
X windows, and NNTP. Network access is controlled by a rule base that can be
configured for each user according to userid, network service,
inbound/outbound connection, time of day, day of week, public/private network
and/or host address, authentication method and enforced encryption.

ANS CO+RE developed the new product with RSA's BSAFE 2.0 toolkit, the world's
best-selling cryptography software developer's kit. BSAFE is the same toolkit
that served as the encryption "engine" for the developers of Novell NetWare
4.0, Lotus Notes, WordPerfect InForms and Fischer International
Workflow.2000. BSAFE provides an easy path towards integration of state-of-
the-art encryption and digital signature technology -- without requiring the
developer to have a background in cryptography or number theory. RSA security
technology is a standard on the Internet, the world's largest network, and on
the secure networks of businesses and financial institutions worldwide.

RSA president Jim Bidzos, commenting on the deal, said, "As the Internet
grows, more and more confidential and mission-critical data is flowing over
it -- unfortunately, the open nature of the Internet makes that information
relatively easy to steal, alter or forge. The RSA-based Internet PEM
(privacy-enhanced mail) standards have provided a good start by offering
secure messaging capabilities to Internet users -- but now any IP user can
get a complete network security implementation, with RSA built right in, with
ANS CO+RE InterLock."

Al Hoover, VP of Information and Applications for ANS CO+RE stated, "We've
been looking to incorporate a public-key based key management system that is
both as advanced as the other InterLock services and easy to integrate. RSA's
Public Key Cryptography fills that need perfectly, and we will be pleased to
offer it to our customers beginning in the fourth quarter of this year. It
represents our continuing efforts to build on our foundation of quality
security services."

RSA Data Security Inc. is a recognized world leader in cryptography. The
Company develops and markets software developer's kits, end-user products,
and provides comprehensive consulting services in the cryptographic sciences.
RSA technology has been embedded in the products of companies such as IBM,
Apple Computer, DEC, Microsoft, Sun Microsystems, Novell, Lotus, Motorola,
Northern Telecom, AT&T, WordPerfect, Fischer International, General Electric,
Hughes and many others. Founded in 1982 by the inventors of the patented RSA
Public Key Cryptosystem, the company is headquartered in Redwood City,
California.

ANS CO+RE Systems, Inc. is a wholly owned subsidiary of Advanced Network &
Services, Inc. of Elmsford, NY. In addition to offering network security
services, the company markets attachments to its nationwide T3 backbone
network, and provides other related support, such as network management
outsourcing, network design and engineering, and systems integration.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
InterLock and the InterLock logo are servicemarks of ANS CO+RE Systems Inc.
X Windows is a trademark of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
The RSA logo and BSAFE are trademarks of RSA Data Security, Inc.

Copyright 1993 HPCwire.




