From: Dave Banisar <banisar@washofc.cpsr.org>
Date: Fri, 23 Apr 93 18:53:38 PDT
To: extropians@gnu.ai.mit.edu
Subject: Re: Privacy International (fwd)
Message-ID: <9304232159.AA20673@hacker2.eff.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


RE: PI and Clipper

Privacy International recently nominated the FBI for its Big Brother Award 
(see below) for the digital telephony proposal. Need I say more?

For more info on PI, check out the CPSR Internet Library at cpsr.org 
/privacy_international

Dave Banisar
Director,
PI Washington Office (one of my many hats)

------ Forwarded Message

The following forwarded from alt.privacy.  Anybody have experience
with this group?  Have they taken a position on the wiretap chip?

...

THE BIG BROTHER AWARDS

Governments, private sector organizations, credit bureaus,
police departments and the military in many countries are
engaging in programs which have the effect of eroding the rights
and privacy of individuals. These practices often breach
international human rights conventions, and threaten the balance
or evolution of free and open societies. In many cases,
information technology is used for the purposes of increasing
the power of authorities, while diminishing the rights of
individuals. These violations occur  in all parts of the  world.

The Big Brother awards  sponsored by Privacy International, will
be given to the organization, initiative, government or act
which is most invasive of private life, or which is responsible
for the most dangerous and intrusive acts of surveillance.

Privacy International believes that there should be a more
widespread awareness of these practices. We believe people have
the right to know when governments or other organizations are
engaging in intrusive practices that limit individual rights. We
aim to provide an effective context for viewing these invasive
practices, by establishing an international benchmark. The
establishment of the Big Brother awards aims to provide a
world-wide focus on surveillance and privacy.






