From: Eric Hollander <hh@pmantis.berkeley.edu>
Date: Fri, 24 Dec 93 03:06:28 PST
To: hh@soda.berkeley.edu
Subject: mail poster
Message-ID: <9312241105.AA19078@pmantis.berkeley.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Sorry for the crossposting, but:

I've added a new service to my remailer.  For those of you for whom it is
easier to send mail than to post directly to the net, or for those of you
who want to post anonymously, I now offer a posting service.

To use this service, send mail like this:

	To: hh@soda.berkeley.edu
	Post-To: alt.sex.masturbation
	Subject: what I like to do

and your mail will be automatically posted to alt.sex.masturbation, WITH
YOUR NAME ON IT.

If you would like to post anonymously, use the following header format:

	To: hh@soda.berkeley.edu
	Anon-Post-To: alt.sex.masturbation
	Subject: what I like to do

and it will be posted ANONYMOUSLY.

If you would like to crosspost, use the following type of header (note that
there is no space after the coma):

	To: hh@soda.berkeley.edu
	Anon-Post-To: alt.sex.masturbation,rec.arts.sewing
	Subject: what it's all about

But be warned: excessive crossposting is a Bad Thing.

I know that this type of service is open to all kinds of abuses, so please,
try to be mature about it, or it will be shut down, or even worse, I'll
track down who you are and do something nasty.

A note to UCB users:  This was crossposted to the ucb groups because this is
the only mail-to-news gateway that I know of that posts to the ucb.* groups.

Also note that hh@soda still supports its full remailer functions.  Usage of
the remailer is detailed in soda.berkeley.edu:/pub/cypherpunks/remailers.

A further note on headers:

Some mailers do not allow users to easily modify headers in mail.  However,
you can still use this service.  To do so, send a message like this:

	To: hh@soda.berkeley.edu
	Subject: Big Fun

	::
	Anon-Post-To: alt.sex.masturbation

	[body of message goes here]

In other words, make the first line of the body of the message two colons
(::) and then my remailer will treat the next line after that as part of the
message header.

Have fun!

e




