From: ""L. Detweiler"" <ld231782@longs.lance.colostate.edu>
Date: Fri, 28 May 93 21:27:30 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Sternlight forgery
Message-ID: <9305290406.AA25605@longs.lance.colostate.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Sheesh, hours spent on the Mycotronx posting are rewarded with uniform
deafening apathy, and this gets all the reaction.  I'd never have
thought I'd be flamed for condemning a forgery. When did it happen that
cancelling other's postings and deceitful forgeries wasn't taboo? Ok,
ok, maybe it never was, and nothing's sacred in cyberspace; don't flame
me with the history of Usenet taboos.

Perhaps I didn't make this clear, but the names and themes (Zimmerman,
Bidzos, RSA, PGP, other cypherpunk members) in the forged letter
suggested to me a cypherpunk subscriber may have been responsible.
Otherwise, I would not have posted it here. It's just my modest warning
and reminder that while we might be revolutionaries we're not scoundrels.

I take exception to the description of the posting as an `innocent
joke'. I have no problem with an `innocent joke' like this being posted
under someone's name or even anonymously. It seems to me at least some
of the intent was rooted in malice and deceit. Ah, but I'm starting to
sound like Depew.

peter honeyman <honey@citi.umich.edu>
>go hang with spaf if you want to deal out this kind of bullshit.
>cypherpunks are not the cops of the net.

Ouch.  I assure you Mr. Spafford is not my type, and anyway he has
apparently resigned from the position of net.policeman so the point is
mute.  (At the quasi-demise of anon.penet.fi there was a lot of rumor
and speculation that he was the `highly regarded net personality' who
sent the poison letter alluded by Helsingius. I wonder if that tipped
him over the edge?)

Excuse me, I just thought it might give some bored cypherpunk something
to do with their afternoon in helping track down the posting. I think
I'll just go lurk in a dark Usenet corner.

L.




