From: kelly@netcom.com (Kelly Goen)
Date: Fri, 19 Feb 93 13:24:17 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Political reasons to spread Crypto(warning FLAME-BAIT)
Message-ID: <9302192122.AA08664@netcom.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


To All,
      For those of us who have chosen to stand up and be counted as leaders
in our electronic democracy, it is important  to remember the economic
impact activities and experiments such as the ones cypherpunks conduct
have on the social fabric of control that the government seeks to
have pervasive throughout our society. Leaders in other communities
such as the Black/Gay/Minorities/Women have been crushed, murdered/assasinated
and have had their rights trampled on by the Federal Intelligence community.
Buses such as COINTELPRO/MK ULTRA and other actions against american
citizens have been legion thoughout the existance of the federal
 intelligence community Their budgets for intelligense, spying, murder
are secret, so called black budgets and their activities among us have
been largely hidden being covered up by what ever means necessary.
The federal government has perverted virtuall every instrument,concept,iand
theory that has been handed it all in this insane reasoning of
"For reasons of National Security", Well I for one am DAMN sick
of seeing the constitution flushed down the drain by those marching
morons in their haste of expediency, I am damn sick of seeing my hard
 earned dollars go to support Wars of suppression in El Salvador and Brazil
where torture and Murder is both taught by the intelligence
community in this country and promulgated, Death squads and other
instruments of suppressiooon are still commonplace south of the border
and the DRUG war is now listed as the reason, GIVE ME A BREAK
what about the CIA retrofit base in Mena, Arkansas. What about
the contra/drug scandal. What About That damn rascal ex-president
BUSH, and dont think that means Clintons are any cleaner.
Well I for one am taking that stand I earlier suggested
and making DAMN sure this gets into all the hands of the
groups mentioned, as in my original publication of PGP 1.0
for Phil 2 years ago.... I am scared very scared, and
when I get scared I dont cower I fight back by whatever legal means are
left me... PGP and DC style protocols are effective LEGAL weapons
that have an extreme economic impact on the gathering of
illicit electronic intelligence by the federal intelligence community
from the citizens of this country and others in the political movements
WE as leaders in spreading this new technology to those groups
can have a very REAL WORLD effect in stopping murder, torture and political
supression. US readers have to be cautioned NOT to export Crypto technology from
 our borders telling others where to find it and how to set it up
and use it is PERFECTLY LEGAL however.
OK I will shut up now and let the flames roar!!!! :)

    A slightly agitiated CryptoAnarchist/Peace Activist/cypherpunk
    cheers
    kelly
--------




