From: an12070@anon.penet.fi (Cryptoanarchist Assassination Squad   )
Date: Tue, 14 Dec 93 08:00:24 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Surrender or Die
Message-ID: <9312141556.AA16003@anon.penet.fi>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


There has been some extremely strong speculation as to our 
identity lately. It's time for us to identify ourselves. We are
Operation CRaP, the Cryptoanarchist Repression and Poison, and 
we have infiltrated your own conspiracy to the most sensitive 
levels. L.Detweiler retypes most notes to prevent style analysis
and inference detection that would lead to our identities. 
We have infiltrated the *interesting* mailing list, have a 
'bug' planted at crl.com, and a brilliant spy in one of your 
most sensitive development projects. Finally, we have an 
informant very close to one of the Big Three. We would be more 
specific, to prove it, but we can't do so without compromising 
our contacts.  However, we can tell you that we got bored of 
your silly open meetings and stopped going to them a long time 
ago because they don't have anything to do with what you're 
*really* doing! We have been engaged since the talk on this 
list led us to suspicions and the discoveries of the deceptions
and accomplices involved in the Wired article (Kelly,Dyer).

Tentacle hunting is one of our favorite pastimes, and we have
developed a variety of techniques to hunt down and kill snakes. 
We also have been able to detect some of the more atrocious
pseudopooling. But we lost interest in the `small fries' when 
the smell led us to the `big macs'. In fact, we would have
dropped the tentacle hunting business if it weren't so 
spectacularly pervasive among the Big Three. After you
penetrated RISKS and continued to lie and cover up, it became
clear that you will truly stop at nothing to protect your
tentacles. We think that you could stop immediately, or
someone could get hurt, or a truly great disaster could 
occur.

All of our postings are careful craftings of disinformation and 
actual truth that are designed to elicit the maximum degree of 
desperate paranoia on your part. Sometimes when e.g. L.Detweiler
says somewhere `I know' or 'in fact' he means `I think' and 
sometimes `I suspect' really means `we have long had extremely 
incriminating evidence on this that would convict you in any 
court in the country, and plan to eventually, but we're just 
tormenting you at the moment to see how loud you can shriek and 
how much you can squirm'. 

Our `cyberspatial' campaign is one of our more effective 
measures in promoting your disintegration without 
exposing our extremely stategic positions within your 
organization, but we have not yet employed the `big artillery'. 
We are actively destroying your conspiracy so that you will 
no longer sabotage the growth of cyberspace. We are quite 
amused to use your own guerrila sabotage tactics against your
fragile excuse for 'development'. We are especially amused 
at your fright at our 'violent death threats'. We are 
particularly focused on your quasi-criminal activities. You 
are already aware of many signs of our countermeasures. You 
have the chance to give up now or face serious escalation and 
vastly more grisly consequences. You have 24 hours before we
launch our next cyberspatial strike.

We now return you to your regularly scheduled perversions.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
To find out more about the anon service, send mail to help@anon.penet.fi.
Due to the double-blind, any mail replies to this message will be anonymized,
and an anonymous id will be allocated automatically. You have been warned.
Please report any problems, inappropriate use etc. to admin@anon.penet.fi.




