From: "Kent Hastings" <kent_hastings@qmail2.aero.org>
Date: Fri, 18 Jun 93 11:49:46 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Inviso-Crypt(r)
Message-ID: <199306181849.AA16946@aerospace.aero.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


                      Inviso-Crypt(r) 
I'm proud to announce a new fuzzy-logic application that can
access sub-digital biticles. These vitalistic fractional bits
were never discovered before now because computer scientists
are still clinging to a rigid notion of Aristotelian "A or not-A"
on-off binary logic.

It took a Fate magazine advertisement to inspire this scam, er- 
breakthrough. One of my beta testers was delighted to find his 
bank account dramatically compressed and his computer network 
rendered userless.

Here is a sample of the program's output:
!!! BEGIN INVISO-CRYPT(R) DATA BLOCK !!!










!!! END INVISO-CRYPT DATA BLOCK !!!
The preceding message may look like all spaces, but those 10 lines
contain over 100 megabytes of encrypted biticles. Inviso-Crypt(r) 
works on graphic files, too. "+". That single character holds a 
4-megabyte GIF image.

Nothing works like, well, uh - nothing ... to the naked eye, of 
course. You've heard of Beethoven's "Emperor Concerto," this is 
nicknamed "The Emperor's New Code" around our data center. Our 
recent advance in applied cryptology works as described here or
my name isn't Mr. Burns, oops, uh - Mr. Snrub, a dedicated 
computer scientist working at, uh - a lab very far away, on a 
chain of islands with affordable liability immunity and anonymous
trust business structures. That'll do. This software not only does
real time bit-slicing, it rolls virtual dice to generate random 
keys. Yes, it slices, it dices, and it will decrypt your DNA and 
cure cancer, colds, baldness, and all other ailments.

This program is so important that my lobbyists are "passing bills"
through Congress as you read this. (Ok Senator, I'm putting these
bills on the trash dumpster, and when I get back, I expect them
to be hauled away. Don't forget the free bar of soap to wash your
hands of this whole affair. See, I DO support clean government.) 

Soon, Inviso-Crypt(r) will be the exclusive national standard. Why,
my payroll expenses have been amazingly smaller since I printed
paychecks using the Inviso-Cash(r) standard.

Homer: "Hello - money, where are you?"

"I like the way that Inviso-Crypt(r) works!" - Smithers.#000#






