From: edgar@spectrx.saigon.com (Edgar W. Swank)
Date: Tue, 21 Dec 93 10:00:07 PST
To: Cypherpunks          <cypherpunks@toad.com>
Subject: Distribution of Secure Drive
Message-ID: <2y6wec8w165w@spectrx.saigon.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

On Dec 10 I posted the following:

  On Nov 30, I sent a private msg to Eric Hughes asking him to put
  Mike Ingle's Secure Drive program for MSDOS

     SECDRV10.ZIP    68155  11-19-93  Secure Drive 1.0 with SRC.

  On the Soda.Berkeley FTP site and to advise me of its location.
  I have not received any response at all.

  I'm on a UUCP system, so I have to do FTP requests via an E-mail
  server, which is cumbersome if one has to "fish around" for a file
  one doesn't know the exact directory & filename for.

  I'm aware that Mike said he hadn't submitted Secure Drive to the FTP
  site because of "export concerns."  But since this site is already
  distributing PGP, I wouldn't think this a "concern" to the site
  administration.

  So I'm asking any public-spirited Cypherpunk (perhaps even an
  anonymous one) to place Secure Drive on an FTP site or a site
  with an E-mail file server and to post the location of the file
  either here or to me privately.

So far I still haven't heard from Eric. I did get two responses.
The first was anonymous and sent me a copy of Secure Drive with
a request for me to post it to foreign FTP site(s). The second
was a request from a foreign site for me to send them a copy.

Perhaps I didn't state my desires clearly enough.

I already have a copy of Secure Drive.  I would like to get it
uploaded to a -USA- FTP site (like soda.berkeley) or e-mail
fileserver site.  In my (non-professional) opinion, this is completely
legal.

I would rather not -unnecessarily- break the ITAR law (or even openly
conspire to do so), by sending Secure Drive overseas myself.

Once Secure Drive is on a domestic FTP site, some furriner may hear
about it and flout our sacred law and have a copy sent to him.  But
that won't be my fault.

Matt Blaze commented on Dec 16:

    Please, please don't do this without checking with the author of
    the package first.  He went out of his way to say that he doesn't
    want to a make it available for ftp because he doesn't want to
    deal with potential export problems.  So respect his wishes; it's
    his work, after all.

I must politely but strongly disagree!  My recollection of Mike
Ingle's comment is that Mike said that -he- had not acted to put
Secure Drive onto a domestic FTP site.  He has -not- said that anyone
- -else- could not do so.

I suspect that by "checking with the author ... first", you would put
Mike in the position of having to go on record as either approving or
disapproving placement on a domestic FTP site, which he so far has
managed to avoid doing!

Mike is free to jump in here if he -wants- to go on record.  I hope he
will just pretend he didn't see this series of posts so he can
maintain his plausible deniability that he approved allowing SD to
"leak" overseas like PGP did.

You all recall that Mike asked testers of the Beta version of Secure
Drive not to ship it overseas or even distribute it at all. But I, at
least, was -not- asked to agree to those conditions for the -release-
1.0 version and I did not.  I have good records of my correspondence
with Mike & can quote it if challenged.

I will quote Mike briefly.  This is his response to my suggestion for
a cosmetic change to LOGIN and CRYPTDSK:

    Me:
    >I wish I had gotten this to you sooner.  At least make sure it
    >gets in the next release, please.

    Mike:
    Ok, the next release (if I do it; I'm hoping the net will take
    this over the way it took over PGP) will also include ...

Well, when the "net" took over PGP, it "leaked" overseas, didn't it.

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.3a

iQCVAgUBLRcv994nNf3ah8DHAQFAOwP/UwPp8h/8WrCe8Gs1k6BOCSKo4OrwB8bW
kOoLet3qa8bNmDPoWccfaHP5PZDD4TR6oGkqxXqWposvgs+Zl5oN1WDAQqnTBykF
OCBdsIHsnIshrLxahD7SCT/s8QxfYsl/hqqL0phOOA5DjCM8sSOEAocOWhywuUYE
vRDXy+hQLns=
=Fe/M
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

--
edgar@spectrx.saigon.com (Edgar W. Swank)
SPECTROX SYSTEMS +1.408.252.1005  Cupertino, Ca





