From: jim@bilbo.suite.com (Jim Miller)
Date: Mon, 25 Oct 93 12:34:29 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Interesting reading
Message-ID: <9310251931.AA03854@bilbo.suite.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain




The following is one of the most humorous posts I've read in a long time.  It  
made my day.


-----------

From: tcmay@netcom.com (Timothy C. May)
Subject: Time for me to come clean...
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Date: Mon, 18 Oct 93 12:46:40 PDT

My experiment has gone far enough.

One of you has claimed that the Net entity "tcmay" (Timothy C. May,
putatively) is actually "jamie" (Jamie Dinkelacker, putatively). This
person has at other times claimed that perhaps Eric Hughes and Jamie
are the same person, and that the Net entity "tcmay" is the "lackey of Eric
Hughes."

It is all getting so confusing! 


Allow me to clarify.

I entered this list under a variety of pseudonyms, with the intent of
compiling information on all of you. I have been posting under the
identities of Tim May (who has actually never existed....the man
behind the mask on the cover of "Wired" was a hired actor, as were the
stand-ins for the personnas of Eric Hughes and John Gilmore), Sandy
Sandfort, Jamie Dinkelacker, and many others.

I disavow any connection to the paranoid "S. Boxx," however.

In fact, I think there are only five actual biological entities on
the list. Makes for some good conspiracy theories for the paranoids.

Finally, I also write under the nym de guerre of "Dorothy Denning."
The real Dorothy Denning is too busy grading papers for her freshman
crypto class to post, so I fill in.

My real name should be apparent to you all. I knew if I used it, the
other four of you would not take me seriously. But now the secret's
out.


David
     

--
     

David Sternlight         When the mouse laughs at the cat,
                         there is a hole nearby.--Nigerian Proverb

--------------



Jim_Miller@suite.com





