From: fergp@sytex.com (Paul Ferguson)
Date: Thu, 6 May 93 14:44:15 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: ECPA reports
Message-ID: <5Tc63B1w165w@sytex.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


 
I was re-reading USC Title 18 (Crimes and Criminal Procedure)
when I came across this snippet. Are these reports available
under the Freedom of Information Act? If so, I'd be interested
in examining them.
 
This extract is from Title 18, Part I, Chp. 119 (Wire and Electronic
communications interception of oral communications), Sec. 2519
(Reports concerning intercepted wire, oral or electronic
communications) paragraphs (inclusive) 2 & 3.
 
8<----- Begin snippet -------
 
     (2)  In January of each year the Attorney  General, an
Assistant Attorney General specially designated by the Attorney
General, or the principal prosecuting attorney of a State, or the
principal prosecuting attorney for any political subdivision of a
State, shall report to the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts-
 
          (a)  the information required by  paragraphs (a)
     through (g) of subsection (1) of this section with respect
     to each application for an order or extension made during
     the preceding calendar year;
 
          (b)  a general description of the interceptions made
     under such order or extension, including (i) the approximate
     nature and frequency of incriminating communications inter-
     cepted, (ii) the approximate nature and frequency of other
     communications intercepted, (iii) the approximate number of
     persons whose communications were intercepted, and (iv) the
     approximate nature, amount, and cost of the manpower and
     other resources used in the interceptions;
 
          (c)  the number of arrests resulting from interceptions
     made under such order or extension, and the offenses for
     which arrests were made;
 
          (d)  the number of trials resulting from such intercep-
     tions;
 
          (e)  the number of motions to suppress made with
     respect to such interceptions, and the number granted or
     denied;
 
          (f)  the number of convictions resulting from such
     interceptions and the offenses for which the convictions
     were obtained and a general assessment of the importance of
     the interceptions; and
 
          (g)  the information required by paragraphs (b) through
     (f) of this subsection with respect to orders or extensions
     obtained in a preceding calendar year.
 
     (3)  In April of each year the Director of the Administra-
tive Office of the United States Courts shall transmit to the
Congress a full and complete report concerning the number of
applications for orders authorizing or approving the interception
of wire, oral, or electronic communications pursuant to this
chapter and the number of orders and extensions granted or denied
pursuant to this chapter during the preceding calendar year.
Such report shall include a summary and analysis of the data
required to be filed with the Administrative Office by
subsections (1) and (2) of this section.  The Director of the
Administrative Office of the United States Courts is authorized
to issue binding regulations dealing with the content and form of
the reports required to be filed by subsections (1) and (2) of
this section.
 
8<------- End snippet ----------
 

Paul Ferguson                  |  Uncle Sam wants to read
Network Integrator             |       your e-mail...
Centreville, Virginia USA      | Just say "NO" to the Clipper
fergp@sytex.com                |          Chip...
-------------------------------+------------------------------
         I love my country, but I fear it's government.




