From: wcs@anchor.ho.att.com (Bill_Stewart(HOY002)1305)
Date: Fri, 5 Mar 93 11:55:09 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Encrypted voice protocol?
Message-ID: <9303051954.AA22260@anchor.ho.att.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text


(Carl - this is a reply to a cypherpunks mailing list mention of your
program.  Way to go, and good luck!)

Internet Talk Radio also made the Front Page of the New York Times 3/4/93.
The picture of Carl Malamud showed him in his office, with a computer near the
front with "Internet Talk Radio" running on it, and a poster on the
back wall saying "Freedom of the Press belongs to those who own one",
put out by some computer company or other.   Story by John Markoff, of course.

It's basically going to be a half-hour audio segment, with interviews
("Geek of the Week") plus miscellaneous news and stories, kind of in the
style of All Things Considered.  Folks with high-end systems will be able to
listen in real-time; folks with lower-end will need to download slowly and
listen later.  Size is about 15 MB, data rate 64 kb/s, estimated 2400-baud time
14 hours.  I'm surprised he's not doing better compression than that,
but (speculation) this may be broadcast-quality audio with ADPCM rather than
telephone-quality 3kHz audio uncompressed?  The broadcast will be split up
into segments, so you can get pieces without downloading the whole thing.
Initially it's audio-only but may add some multi-media stuff, especially for 
navigation through the sound files.  GIFs of the guest would be an obvious
extension....

Some good interviews with Nicholas Negroponte of MIT Media Lab and
Paul Saffo of Institute for the Future.  No mention of encryption, MIME,
pricing, retransmission policy, etc.  Some nice commentary on the relationship
between this and the broadcast industry.

Computer fu.  Gratuitous NREN fu.  No blood but a little Gore.
Joe Bob says "Check it out!"


				Bill Stewart  wcs@anchor.att.com




