From: poc@im.lcs.mit.edu (Physics of Computation Seminar)
Date: Thu, 15 Jul 93 10:40:36 EDT
To: msgs@bourbaki.mit.edu
Subject: Physics of Computation Seminar, Monday July 19
Message-ID: <2fe020320280403b997bad55d2966fce@NO-ID-FOUND.mhonarc.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain




		MIT PHYSICS OF COMPUTATION SEMINAR

		Date: Monday, July 19
		Time: 11AM
		Room: 4-270


    Quantum versus Classical Information: a Fruitful Dichotomy

    Charles H. Bennett
    IBM Research, Yorktown Heights

    Abstract:

    Classical information (the kind in newspapers) and quantum
    information (carried by certain states of elementary particles
    such as photons) are very different.  Classical information can
    be read, copied, and transcribed into any medium, but it cannot
    be sent faster than the speed of light.  Quantum information
    cannot be read or copied without disturbing it, but in some
    instances can propagate instantaneously or even backward in time.
    Together the two kinds of information can perform several feats
    that neither could do alone.  These include quantum cryptographic
    systems, some of which have already been built, in which privacy
    of communications is guaranteed by the uncertainty principle; and
    a new technique, "quantum teleportation", by which an unknown
    quantum state (eg a photon of unknown polarization), can be dismembered
    into purely classical and purely nonclassical parts, transmitted
    through separate channels to a new location, and recombined there to
    produce a perfect reincarnation of the original state.


    Host:  Norm Margolus, MIT Lab for Computer Science


This talk is part of a new seminar series on adapting computers and
computations to the constraints of, and opportunities afforded by,
microphysics; and on the development and application of the physical theory
of computation and information.  Please forward this notice to anyone who
you think might be interested.  Anyone who wishes to be added to the
distribution list for these seminar announcements should send email to
"poc@im.lcs.mit.edu".

This series is being sponsored by the MIT Information Mechanics Group (Lab
for Computer Science), in conjunction with the MIT Physics and Media Group
(Media Lab), the MIT Porous Flow Project (Earth, Atmospheric and Planetary
Sciences), and the Mathematical Sciences Research Group at Thinking
Machines Corporation.



