From: cjl@micro.med.cornell.edu (Chris Leonard)
Date: Thu, 26 Aug 93 18:32:37 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: .Comparing ViaCrypt and freeware.
Message-ID: <9308270131.AA13145@ micro.med.cornell.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



{Refering to my earlier post about the possibility of black-boxing the
  commercial ViaCrypt and comparing it to freeware PGP} 


I've been most gratified by the response (private and posted) to my question.
Thanks for the enlightenment.  The first few responses were diametrically
opposite in their conclusions, but after that what I have taken away as the 
message is that the session key is generated on-the-fly and would be different 
every time, although I guess I still don't understand enough to figure out 
why no matter what the program uses as randomness input some really bright 
boy capable of working real down close to the silicon couldn't fake up some 
sort of a test bed to spoon-feed the "randomness" to the program.  It's not 
like this thing runs on quantum randomness.  Is it?

As for why bother when the freeware is available, plausible deniability was
mentioned and I think that is probably the most convincing argument.  The
Jackson Games seizure, and other computer confiscations by law enforcement
are enough to keep any company from allowing a copy of PGP on the premises, it
also has a fairly chilling effect on those less brave souls who don't have
the power of their convictions and are willing to trust the government not 
to snoop on their E-mail or phone conversations.  The right to privacy can 
be eroded away because most people don't care to learn how the box on the 
desk works, let alone worry about exercising their civil liberties.  Hell,
most people don't even bother to vote.

I found out about PGP from the WIRED article on the cypherpunks, and I have been
doing as someone else suggested, turning other people on to privacy.  I have 
converted several friends already and they in turn are spreading the encrypted
word.

eep-Kay o-nay rypting-'Cay,

cjl




