From: "L. Detweiler" <ld231782@longs.lance.colostate.edu>
Date: Tue, 21 Sep 93 21:36:43 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: list split?
Message-ID: <9309220433.AA13611@longs.lance.colostate.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


this has been discussed a long time ago, but there is definitely some
serious volume lately on the list. of course, its been a problem for as
long as I can remember. I still like the mailing list flavor vs. a
newsgroup, but the piles are really deep recently. (right now some
people are thinking `of all the people to point this out' or `some nerve' :)

anyway, here's what I propose. I think a split to mailing lists

cpunk-remailers (policies, modifications, etc.)
cpunk-code (PGP, encryption software, phones, etc.)
cpunk-issues (Clipper, PGP investigation, etc.)
cpunk-announce (news articles, fwds from elsewhere on internet
services, etc. -- very low volume)

would probably come pretty close to chopping up the current traffic in popular ways.

NOTE!

since meta list discussions like this generate a notorious amount of
traffic, *please* DO NOT POST to the list on this subject immediately.
Send your mail to list moderator hughes@soda.berkeley.edu, who just
recently complained about the volume and urged that things be kept to
private mail. If EH does not want to do this, let him speak up and say
so and let the froth awash us on the list instead. But maybe he could
come to some kind of conclusion from the email and describe a course of
action. IMHO, a split is the most pragmatic approach to dealing with
the volume, and we really should be a bit embarrassed not to have done it before.

now, of course, the major headache for EH is that he currently has to
handle subscription requests manually. So I wonder if he would like to
explore automated list software, of which there is a great deal.

Like EH I'm genuinely concerned about the really high-class people that
are finding no signals in the noise, despite their basic. The attrition
is really a pity.




