From: phr@america.Telebit.COM (Paul Rubin)
Date: Sat, 1 May 93 14:06:45 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: clipper poll
Message-ID: <9305012106.AA01079@america.TELEBIT.COM>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Date: Sat, 1 May 93 08:28:04 PDT
From: wuthel!brand@drums.reasoning.com (Russell Brand)
To: brand@drums.reasoning.com
Subject: CLIPPER POLL please propigate this to like minded people


I am one of the many concerned computer scientists opposing the `Clipper Chip
Initiative' that would waste the better part of eight billion dollars,
interfere with individual privacy, promote harassment of individuals, threaten
US competiveness and in fact simplify many types of criminal activity.  


It is important to take this opportunity to show the level of public opposition
to this extension of domestic spying and abuse of government funds.  Given the
congressional vote to allow even more telephone taps WITHOUT warrents earlier
this month, this is even a more pressing issue than it would otherwise be.

Of course you should show your opposition in other ways as well, but this is a
FREE and EZ first step.

If you aren't sufficiently familiar with the issues, please feel free to send
me email on the topic

/Russell

    Communications Week magazine has a weekly telephone response poll.


    This week's question is:


    Do you agree with the Clinton administration's Public Encryption
    Management directive for communications equipment?


    Yes: 800-242-CWKY
    No:  800-242-CWKN


Excerpted from `Boston Globe' of April 11, 1993, page 16.

New England Votes in Congress

Roll Call Report Syndicate


WASHINGTON - This is how New England members of Congress were recorded
on major roll-call votes last week.

 ...

TO EXPAND FBI PHONE ACCESS:

By a vote of 367-6, the House sent the Senate a bill expanding the FBI's
power to obtain, without court warrants, telephone records and
conversations in investigations of international terrorism and
espionage.  The bill grants the FBI access in such investigations to
information on unlisted numbers that phone companies cannot now divulge.
It also enables FBI counterintelligence agents to obtain a broader
range of telephone conversations involving suspected terrorists and
spies.

A yes vote was to pass the bill.

..






