From: "L. Detweiler" <ld231782@longs.lance.colostate.edu>
Date: Tue, 28 Sep 93 00:51:25 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: idiotic government regulations: DO SOMETHING!
Message-ID: <9309280748.AA20432@longs.lance.colostate.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Here's everyone's chance to do something *constructive* about idiotic
government regulations. Imagine this -- an email address to report them!


------- Forwarded Message

Date: Sun, 26 Sep 93 23:14:39 EDT
From: "Paul Jones" <pjones@sunsite.unc.edu>
Subject: REGO needs your suggestions - soon

	The following announcement comes from the Office of the 
National Performance Review- they are looking for anecdotes regarding 
useless government regulations, and reccomendations for eliminating 
needless bureaucracy. This is the Net's chance to have a say in fixing
what's wrong with the US government.



- ------


	Vice President Gore's task force on reinventing government (REGO)
called for many changes in the federal government.  Now that the report
has been issued, we have shifted to implementation of those
recommendations.  Successful implementation of those changes will require
the collective efforts of many people across government.  To provide support 
and to help implement the recommendations, a "network of networks" is being
established.  The network, dubbed "NetResults" will link together
government workers at the federal, state, and local levels, and will
provide ways for people in the private and non-profit sectors to
participate as well.  This message is an initial effort by  NetResults to
get information and support for these recommendations. 

	On September 11, 1993, President Clinton signed an executive order 
calling for the elimination of one-half of executive branch internal 
regulations within three years.  We'd like your assistance in helping us 
find the best examples of obsolete, redundant, or dysfunctional  federal 
regulations. This is your opportunity to let senior federal policy managers 
know about federal regulations or internal administration policies 
and procedures that prevent effective service to the taxpayer.  We plan 
to forward this information to the Federal Quality Institute for its use 
in helping agencies eliminate or reduce regulations. 

	Any replies should give a brief description of the regulation or
internal administrative procedures and a specific citation where this
regulation is found.  Please send us this information either through 
electronic mail to: 

	sillyreg@sunsite.unc.edu
	
or fax it to REGO at: 

	(202) 632-0390.  

For immediate impact, send your responses by electronic mail before 
September 28, 1993.

	If you are interested in more information on "NetResults", please
send an electronic mail message to Steve Butterfield at steveb@sunsite.unc.edu, 
Dennis Egan at dennise@tmn.com, or Andy Campbell at andy@tmn.com.  

We appreciate your interest and will look forward to your replies. 



------- End of Forwarded Message





