From: "L. Detweiler" <ld231782@longs.lance.colostate.edu>
Date: Tue, 10 Aug 93 22:22:13 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: AAAS-ABA `Ethics of Computers' conference announcement
Message-ID: <9308110517.AA07082@longs.lance.colostate.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



As the forwarder writes:

>I have forwarded this notice because I feel that the "cypherpunk" point of 
>view could profitably be presented at such a forum.  Is there anyone out there
>who feels up to putting the case forward in this academic setting?  I hope so.
>
>Yours in plaintext.
>
>cjl      "Keep on 'crypting."


===cut=here===

Date: Tue, 10 Aug 93 15:18:21 EDT
From: cjl@micro.med.cornell.edu (Chris Leonard)
Message-Id: <9308101918.AA12387@ micro.med.cornell.edu>
Subject: for your information



Reprinted from SCIENCE magazine July 30, 1993 vol.261 pg. 632

xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx

NETWORK ETHICS: A CALL FOR PAPERS

The AAAS-ABA National Conference of Lawyers and Scientists (NCLS) invites 
proposals for original papers for presentation at a two-and-a-half day 
invitational conference on "Legal, Ethical, and Technological Aspects of 
Computer and Network Use and Abuse."  Forty participants representing a 
diverse set of perspectives and areas of expertise will present papers at the 
conference which will be held in southern California in mid-December 1993.  Up
to three successful applicants will receive travel expenses and room and board
at teh conference.  Papers will be included in the conference proceedings and
may be published subsequently in a book or journal symposium.
	The conference will focus on the ways in which the law, ethics, and
technology can influence the bounds of the bounds of acceptable behavior and
foster the development of positive human values in a shared computer
environment.  Participants will address handling unwanted intrusions
into computer software or networks, including unauthorized entry and dissemination 
of viruses through networks or shared disks.  Also on the agenda: access to
information, privacy, security, and equity; the role of computer users, 
academic institutions, industry, profesional soceities, government, and the  
law in defining and maintaining legal and ethical standards for the use of
computer networks; and a policy agenda for implementing these standards.
	Although participants may address any aspect of the conference theme,
papers reporting empirical research, surveys of computer users, and case 
studies (other than those that are already well known) are especially 
encouraged.
	If you are interested in participating in the conference, please
forward a summary or outline of no more than 500 words, together with a 
one-page resume and a brief statement detailing how your expertise or 
perspective would contribute to the meeting.  These proposals will be 
reviewed by an advisory committee convened by NCLS and successful applicants 
will be asked to prepare papers for the meeting.  Participants must submit an 
original previously unpublished paper, between 5000 and 8000 words (25 to
30 double-spaced pages) in length.
	Proposals must be received by 5 pm EST 15 Sept. 1993.  Applicants
selected to prepare papers will be informed by 1 October, and draft papers will 
be due 3 December 1993.  Final versions of the papers, revised in light of 
conference discussions, will be due approximately two months after the
conference.
	NCLS is an organization sponsored jointly by the American Association 
for the Advancement of Science and the American Bar Association, dedicated to
improving communication between members of the legal and scientific/
technical professions and exploring issues at the intersection of law, science,
and technology.  Funding for this meeting has been providesd by the Program
on Ethics and Vales Studies of the National Science Foundation.  For further
information or to submit paper abstracts and accompanying materials, please
contact Deborah Runkle, Directorate for Science & Policy Programs, AAAS, 
1333 H Street, NW, Washington, DC 20005.  Phone: 202-326-660, Fax: 202-289-
4950.  E-mail: values@gwuvm.gwu.edu.


xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx


------- End of Forwarded Message





