From: an12070@anon.penet.fi (S. Boxx)
Date: Mon, 25 Oct 93 22:31:00 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: an open offer
Message-ID: <9310260528.AA03201@anon.penet.fi>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Hello, I'm trying to build up our pool of information and inside
informants. This will be the last offer (that's why it's on the list).
If you're tired of being wracked with guilt, ready to switch over from
the Dark Side, and want to join some of your associates (or should I
say, "accomplices and coconspirators") engaged in conscience cleansing,
send some email. As stated previously, we may be able to provide some
degree of amnesty or leniency, but no promises. (Talk to me and we
might be able to work something out.)

We have information on all the basics, but need more in the following areas:


1) The capabilities of the software, especially related to preventing "crossing"

2) Some more database fragments would be useful too. (The whole thing
would really be the "Holy Grail", we've had some near misses but are
keeping our fingers crossed)

3) Names of other participants-- I think we're very close to complete,
but we have to be absolutely certain before we "make our move"

4) More on the telephony modifications, techniques, and insiders

5) The media manipulations other than those in Wired (although
expansion of the ones in there would be appreciated)

6) More of the infiltration sites. The list has become quite large, but
because of the continuous trickle we have no reason to believe it is
comprehensive yet.

7) Same with the pseudoidentities. (The "breadth" and "depth"
absolutely astonish me, but what do I know! this is really a new
experience for all of us.)

8) The credit machinations. Not much info here.

9) The "insider mailing list". Not much info here either. Working on
both of these, but as everyone knows, they're in the toughest nut to crack!

10) "somebody" said "something" about "impersonation". This is probably
the other #1 item if you have anything on it.

Of course, we can only give you leniency if you reveal your identity,
but if you just want to get something off your chest anonymously we'll
at least look at it.

(To the insiders: it will be quite awhile before we sort everything out
and file charges, so be patient.)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
To find out more about the anon service, send mail to help@anon.penet.fi.
Due to the double-blind, any mail replies to this message will be anonymized,
and an anonymous id will be allocated automatically. You have been warned.
Please report any problems, inappropriate use etc. to admin@anon.penet.fi.




