From: nobody@rosebud.ee.uh.edu
Date: Fri, 11 Jun 93 18:38:57 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: DH for email
Message-ID: <9306120138.AA10588@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Suppose you are communicating with someone using email about something
which the government wouldn't like.  Being careful, you use PGP or
something similar.

Later, the government gets wind of your activities.  They seize your
computer, recovering your encrypted secret key.  You do not have copies
of your old mail, but to your dismay, you discover that your email
service provider keeps backups of old mail.  Using a court order, the
government is able to recover copies of all of your old email.

The court orders you to reveal your pass phrase for your secret key.
Any refusal will result in your being jailed for contempt.  You are
forced to comply.  The result is that your old messages are decrypted
and used against you as evidence.

It would be good to have an alternative which would not be subject to
this kind of attack.

Diffie-Hellman key exchange is generally suitable for an interactive
environment like an encrypted telnet session or a secure serial line.
But it could be adapted to email by having each side create one or more
"key halves" in advance, and exchanging these in an initial message.
Future email could use a session key created by taking the next pair of
key halves (one from each person).  When the supply of key halves got
low, more could be generated and piggybacked with the next email message.

Such a system would be more secure against the kind of attack described
here.  There would be no possibility of reconstructing the session key
used if the key halves were destroyed after use.  You may choose to
keep your own personal copies of email, but you can delete them and be
secure in the knowledge that no attacker will be able to reconstruct
them.

A program like PGP could be created which would automatically take care
of the bookkeeping involved with creating and exchanging key halves for
the DH algorithm.  Then users could have electronic conversations
which were freer from the threat of being coerced into revealing their
secret keys and having the contents of their mail exposed.




