From: fergp@sytex.com (Paul Ferguson)
Date: Wed, 24 Feb 93 01:13:36 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Enough's enough already
Message-ID: <4JPgZB2w165w@sytex.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Excuse me for dropping my two cents in here, but just what's the big,
hairy deal?
 
I apologize for initially bringing up the topic of self-encrypting
viruses; had I known that folks would have reacted in such a childish
manner, I would never have posted that topic at all.
 
For those of you who wish to discuss it further, I'd suggest posting
to comp.virus in the future. I suppose I would take it a tad more
seriously when reading some of the posts that have drifted through
this area, if they were originally posted to an area that was
designed for virus banter.
 
If this sounds like a plea for some sort of sanity check, then I
must be coming across loud and clear.
 
Now, I'd like to ask the cypherpunk readership to clarify the need (or
perhaps a better term may be "desire") for anonymous remailers? Maybe
I'm not getting the "big picture", but it would appear to me that
insurance of private communications is the area of intended interest
here. I know that someone may declare my query as naive, but if you
feel strongly enough about a topic, why wouldn't you want the
recipient to know who you are, where you are and who they can respond
to?
 
I think my train of thought is geared towards anon remailers
protecting those who may operate in less than honorable means, without
ethical guidelines and wishing to "hide" behind a veil of anonymity.
 
Somehow, that just strikes me as less-than-honorable. (No, I was never
a Marine. Army, yes. Marine, no.)
 
Gee, I sure feel better.

Paul Ferguson                     |
Network Integration Consultant    |  "All of life's answers are
Alexandria, Virginia USA          |   on TV."
fergp@sytex.com     (Internet)    |           -- Homer Simpson
sytex.com!fergp     (UUNet)       |
1:109/229           (FidoNet)     |
         PGP public encryption key available upon request.




