From: "L. Detweiler" <ld231782@longs.lance.colostate.edu>
Date: Sat, 4 Dec 93 23:43:09 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: A Clarification on My Trials and Tribulations
Message-ID: <9312050740.AA11785@longs.lance.colostate.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Cypherpunks, you just don't get it. Why am I continuing to attack you
and your leaders despite your vicious, cowardly attacks on me and my
friends? Because, as long as you stand for *lies*, you do not have a
right to exist. And to the extent that you promote *lies* you are
corrupting the Internet and poisoning cyberspace.

J.Gilmore says, `a pseudonym is not illegal unless used for deceptive
purposes.' But you cypherpunks, that's the *only* purpose you are using
them for! If I asked a tentacle, `are you a pseudonym', and it said
`yes', do you think I would have gone to all this trouble to write tens
of thousands of words attacking people and a movement I used to
respect? If I asked your leaders, `have you ever communicated with me
under a pseudonym' and they gave me straight answers, do you think I
would still be around? YOU HAVE NO RIGHT TO LIE TO ANYONE.

Cypherpunks, how many of you have gotten messages, `hey, what do you
think about T.C.May or E.Hughes and this pseudospoofing thing? Are you
going to do anything about it?' For all of you who don't give a damn
about your leaders pseudospoofing, why don't you care that your own
leaders could be molesting you with their tentacles in this way? Using
them in a manipulative way to gauge your loyalty to the movement and
manipulate your trust? On the list and in your email? WHY DON'T YOU
GIVE A DAMN? All I can conclude is that everyone here is in favor of
deception, treachery, betrayal, and perversions, *particularly* if
their leaders are responsible. Where the hell do you think I got all
the stuff for `Joy of Pseudospoofing'? You think I made it all up?

Your leaders molested me in precisely this way, but both the tentacles
and your leaders stonewalled, evaded, and counterattacked. They think
it is FUNNY how they have personally driven me to the BRINK OF
INSANITY. And they *continue* to escalate instead of making simple
statements about their beliefs in pseudospoofing, which would satisfy
me and anyone else who has doubts.

You want the truth? despite their bland statements your leaders *know*
that pseudospoofing is PERVERTED and that is the only reason they
refrain from saying anything about it, the only reason they continue to
attack me as a deranged lunatic. What am I, the police? I don't GIVE A
DAMN about all your perversions, as long as you keep them the hell out
of my mailbox. But you *don't*. Everytime I think there is another
person I can trust, it was nothing but another Leader Tentacle. Look,
if you LIE TO ME in mail, THAT PISSES ME OFF and I will ATTACK you for
it in an attempt to get to the TRUTH. and it should PISS OFF EVERYONE
ELSE HERE TOO but NOBODY GIVES A DAMN.

When I hear strange rumors about deceptions in the media, and your
eminent leaders fail to reassure me, why is no one else upset about
this?  Cypherpunks, don't you give a DAMN that articles by reputable
authors may contain DISTORTIONS AND LIES? Look, Markoff is a highly
respected writer. And if you lie or deceive a reporter, that is like a
personal insult. These people could get *fired* if their articles are
incorrect in a serious way. but you don't GIVE A DAMN. you think it is
FUNNY that you can TRICK REPUTABLE PEOPLE TO BELIEVE IN LIES and so you
can PROPAGATE THEM FURTHER.

Is there an honest cypherpunk in the entire world? None have contacted
me so far. There are a few people that are slinking away quietly with
their tail between their legs, but I think you all are just the same
scurrilous cowards that your leaders are.




