From: thug@phantom.com (Murdering Thug)
Date: Sat, 20 Feb 93 11:12:04 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Free Speech Is Not The Issue, Opression/Harassment Is.
Message-ID: <m0nPzVi-000jrDC@phantom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



With regard to the Peterson affair:

I am very glad to read all the responses that I have seen both publically
on the cypherpunks list, and privately in encouraging letters I have
received in mail.  I want to write responses to all these great letters,
but I have received far too many.  I would like to thank all of you who
support first ammendment rights, and who have told me that found my virus
post informative and useful. 

However, let us really ask ourselves if free speech is the real issue
here.  Yes, I know free speech is a major theme that comes out of all
this, but I don't think that it's the most imporant one.

There are always loonies who wish to yell and hollar about what should
be censored.  Whether it's on the radio like the FCC/Howard Stern affair,
on television, in the movies, on records/tapes/CD's (like Tipper Gore and
her gang).  Those kinds of people will always exist, and I don't see why
people expect them not to exist on Usenet/Internet as well.

What *REALLY* pisses me off about Peterson is his use of underhanded
tactics like threats, intimidation, and harassment.  I don't want to
go toe to toe with Peterson, because when it comes to underhanded tactics,
I can teach him a thing or two, and make his life a living hell should I
decide to do so.  Fortunately for him, I am well beyond that adolescent stage
and mode of thinking.

I think Peterson should realize that there are people out there who can
and will retaliate against him should he harass them in any way.  Just
because so far he has run into compliant and intimidated system admins,
doesn't mean his luck will hold up.  Eventually he will run into someone
who takes this kind of stuff VERY personally, especially if they are
awaken from their nap by a harassing and threatening phone call from Peterson.

If Peterson keeps up his reign of terror, I would not be surprised if he is
not dragged into court one of these days by someone whose personal, moral and
financial interests conflict with Peterson's desire to squash free speech.

A case can easily be made against Peterson in a court of law for harassment,
intimidation, and various civil rights charges having to do with trying to
deny others their constitutional rights.  And I guarantee you that there will
be plenty of system administrators and others who would be happy to testify
against him.

I recommend to Mr. Peterson that he watch his step in trying to step on
other people's constitutional rights. One day he may just step on a
land mine.  I phrase this in terms that a person in the military could
understand. 

Until such time as Peterson blows his legs off, I think it's up to all of
us to guard free speech by telling all system administrators on the net
about Peterson and his reign of terror, and asking them to publically
expose him each and every time he tries to assault our freedom of speech
through threats, initimidation, and harassment.


Murdering Thug





