From: nowhere@bsu-cs.bsu.edu (Chael Hall)
Date: Mon, 14 Jun 93 07:29:43 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: REMAIL/ANON/PGP: System becoming available
Message-ID: <9306141432.AA08208@bsu-cs.bsu.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Cypherpunks,

     I realize that I have been completely quiet on the list for a few
months...  Sorry about that, but I have been away from the University.
Right now I am working in Indianapolis and telnetting from IUPUI up to
BSU.  Anyway, to the heart of the matter...  I have gotten permission
from one of the "good guys" at BSU to put my 486dx/33 with 386BSD in
his office (secure) and get it on the Ethernet.

     I will probably run my anonymous remailer on there (the current
one will stay in business) where it is safer.  In addition, I want to
run a pseudonymous service like anon.penet.fi.  I have written some
software in C that does it, but does not quite support PGP yet (it's
not as easy as I would like to have believed before starting the
project).  It will give you an ID and will restrict mail from and to
certain addresses/sites.  It also puts a standard header into the message
and has features to add header lines and footers to the messages
automatically.

     The system will sit idle (aside from mail) most of the time, so
I have no problem using PGP and being an encryption drop-point.  I am
about to start a rewrite of my remailer pretty soon because it needs
some help.  Anyway, I will send you all the IP address and host name
of my computer when it's online.  This could get exciting...  I have
a guest account on there where you can request an account, but I
can't afford to give out too many accounts.  Of course, I would much
rather cypherpunks have accounts than a bunch of sniveling netbrats.

     Anyway, gotta run.  Incidentally, I have about 3 MB of backed up
mail here.  It's only since the second week of May!

Chael Hall

--
Chael Hall
nowhere@bsu-cs.bsu.edu, 00CCHALL@BSUVC.BSU.EDU, chall@bsu.edu
chall@phantom.bsu.edu, nowhere@chaos.bsu.edu [not online yet]
(317) 776-4000 from 8 am - 5 pm CST




