From: mccoy@binky.cc.utexas.edu
Date: Sun, 3 Oct 93 14:24:42 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Austin Cypherpunks organizational meeting
Message-ID: <199310032125.AA13722@binky.cc.utexas.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



		 Digital Freedom: By any means necessary.


			Austin Cypherpunks Meeting
			 October 9, 1993 1:00 pm
		      Taylor Hall 2.006 -- UT Campus
			    (24th and Speedway)


The Austin Cypherpunks chapter will be holding its first local
meeting on Saturday the 9th of October at 1:00 pm in room 2.006 of
Taylor Hall (UT Campus).  This will be an organizational meeting 
for the local chapter and will give you an opportunity to meet 
other cypherpunks from the Austin area.

For the first time, information technology is giving people the 
opportunity for more privacy instead of less. For instance, we will 
have digital money soon; will it be used to track you every time you 
spend, or will it give you more security and convenience than a credit 
card with the anonymity of cash?

Both are possible outcomes, but you will only keep your privacy if 
people get together and take action. Please join us, either in person 
or through our mailing lists, and help work towards a future where
your privacy is guaranteed, not just legally, but by the best
encryption and authentication tools available.

Some of the items on the agenda for this first meeting include:

	-Education
		Hands-on demonstration of encryption tools and anonymous
		remailers; we will be distributing PGP (bring your disks!)
		and handing out information about the infamous "Clipper
		Chip". We should also have the latest information on the
		subpoenas served on various distributors of cryptographic
		software.	

	-Political action
		Strong tools for privacy are perceived by most 
		governments as a threat; cypherpunks have joined the 
		fight against government attempts to restrict or
		ban encrypted communications, as well as the now-useless
		export ban on effective cryptographic software.

	-Public Key Exchange.
 		Swap public keys with other members.  We will
 		have Macs and PCs on hand for you to sign and
 		exchange public keys with other cypherpunks
 		members.  


 	-Digital Credit Union Project
		Local cypherpunks are already working on forming a
		new credit union which will provide secure banking 
		and commerce across the net using strong cryptography.

[Location Instructions: Go to Taylor Hall on the UT campus.  This building
is at 24th and Speedway.  The directions to room 2.006 are a little
complicated for words, but a map will be posted on all of the doors to
Taylor hall.]

To subscribe to our full mailing list, send mail to: 
     austin-cypherpunks-request@bongo.cc.utexas.edu

To subscribe to our announcement-only mailing list, send mail to: 
     austin-cypherpunks-announce-request@bongo.cc.utexas.edu

Put the word 'subscribe' in the subject of your mail.

Our file archives are available in /pub/cypherpunks via anonymous
ftp at: ftp.cc.utexas.edu


The Austin Cypherpunks chapter will continue to meet on the second 
saturday of each month in conjunction with local cypherpunk chapters
across the country.  The location of future meetings will be announced
on local newsgroups and the local cypherpunks mailing list.

Cypherpunks:  There is safety in numbers... large primes.

Local contacts for your questions...:

	Jim McCoy	<mccoy@bongo.cc.utexas.edu>
	Doug Barnes	<barnes@io.com>









