From: Black Unicorn <unicorn@access.digex.net>
Date: Wed, 15 Dec 93 23:10:47 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Keyservers and anonymous Mailings
Message-ID: <199312160710.AA28701@access3.digex.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

It seems that PGP keyservers have been attacked of late for 
alleged copyright violations.  Nice tactic if you are PKP I guess.  
Has anyone considered the use of anonymous remailers to run a 
keyserver?  A double blind keyserver might solve the operator a 
good deal of heat.

Would this simply cause more problems than it solves?
Perhaps the ethics are simply too black?  (LD are you listening?)

If PKP is going to employ this tactic, it seems that even the 
'new' keyservers that run as simple databases and thus are not a 
copyright question are subject to harassment in the least, even if 
unfounded.  If this is true, would anonymous remailing provide a 
buffer of some type?

It always confused me that anonymous remailers were not used more 
actively for 'questionable' (read fringe) internet services.

Perhaps there is a reason for this?  Criminal liability I suspect.
:)

Perhaps I am mistaken in thinking that the lack of attribution 
just makes centralization less of an option on the 'data highway'?  
Considering the attitude of the current U.S. administration I am 
surprised this is not more of a common practice.

After all, with the methods available, why make it easy to put the 
genie in the bottle?

Again, would this just cause more problems than it solves by 
calling attention to already on the rocks anonymous remailers?

Would make a nice test case.
Or a poor one?

- -uni- (Dark)



-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.3

iQCVAgUBLQ/DJxibHbaiMfO5AQH8+QQA1FkotVUUabYOV+aYSqOgzhOjntl5jIE5
l9xHQ1XbzLrhHwamHPIjanGEfWow6xlGfaA6dUP/RvqVpZjNcAGMQ6v33bxJNpmb
5jL/w2/xq/GNssqeaJMeb0gCkQPJXrlZohY9EZeDOiZJzobLCbCIRdzXSjXoRir0
C83FYcN1Xns=
=Wn1F
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----





