From: jim@bilbo.suite.com (Jim Miller)
Date: Fri, 4 Mar 94 13:41:46 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: even more steganography talk
Message-ID: <9403042136.AA03953@bilbo.suite.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Another way to describe a successful steganography system...

I am the opponent.  I possess a collection of files that might  
contain hidden encrypted messages.  My task is to determine if they  
do contain hidden encrypted message.

A casual inspection of the files does not reveal any bit patterns  
that deviate significantly from patterns found is most examples of  
these kinds of files.  However, I suspect these files contain hidden  
messages that were deposited using a steganography algorithm  
initialized from a public-key generated initialization vector.

To test my hypothesis, I will reverse the steganography process using  
a large collection of public-keys and then examine the resulting bit  
sequences.

--------

If the steganography algorithm is a good one, reversing the steg  
process will produce a sequence of bits that appears relatively  
random, even if there is *no* hidden message.

What does "appears relatively random" really mean?  How do you  
measure the randomness of a sequence of bits?  I'm not an expert in  
this field, but I would guess you could measure the randomness by  
attempting to compress the bit sequence.  If the bit sequence does  
not compress much, it is relatively random.

How much is "not much"?  In other words, what threshold compression  
percentage value should you use to declare one bit sequence random  
and another not random?  I don't know.

To generalize, an opponent will perform some kind of test to  
determine if the result of reversing the steg process produces a  
random bit sequence or a non-random bit sequence.  The test will have  
some threshold value below which indicates a random sequence.  If the  
output of the reverse steganography step always falls below the  
threshold, even if there is no hidden message, then the opponent will  
not be able to determine if a file contains a hidden message.


Jim_Miller@suite.com






