From: "JEFF LICQUIA (CEI)" <JLICQUIA@mhc.uiuc.edu>
Date: Thu, 17 Nov 94 13:31:00 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Soldiers of God
Message-ID: <MAILQUEUE-101.941117152917.320@mhc.uiuc.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

> From:          sarah@purvid.purchase.edu (Sayah)

> I apologize if someone else has mentioned this, but what about the 
> antiabortion folk... the Christian Coalition, Right-to-life, et el?  Religious
> persecution is alive and well.  And we *all* ought to worry about a group that
> doesn't even want the opposition to think, say or publish opposing viewpoints.
> 
> It's all relevant...

I give up; I must really be a persecutor... Say, anyone remember what I
did with my KKK hood?

Now for some content.  I see two very good reasons why Christian 
fundamentalists (CFs) would be on the side of the cypherpunk ideals:

1.  There is a recurring theme in CF thought that can be summed up in a
quote often heard: "...cross-referencing the Book of Revelation with the
New York Times..."  Many CFs see parallels in the Bible concerning
predictions about the Antichrist and his aims with the power that is
becoming rapidly available through the "Information Superhighway".  For
an example of this, try mentioning "digital cash" to a CF who isn't very
technically hip and see what kind of reaction you get.  

Yet their concerns with these things is ultimately rooted in concern 
that a power structure will be erected that centralizes power; when 
that center is taken over by the Antichrist (whoever that may be), 
that's when "no one could buy or sell unless he had the mark" 
(Revelation 13:17 NIV, if you're interested).  These same people, when 
they question me (since I'm a computer professional and therefore am 
"in danger"), are very enthusiastic when I talk to them about 
public-key crypto, anonymized digital cash, and the like, since these 
work to decentralize power.  They are also appalled when I describe to 
them the implications of Clipper and Digital Telephony.  Thinking CFs 
many times despair because of the inevitability of the "information 
economy" and the power implications it has; if they were to find out 
about any technical tools that would ensure decentralization of the 
NII, I'm sure they would fight hard to ensure their inclusion.  Anybody 
around here know of any such technical tools? :-)

2.  There are still places in the world where Christians are persecuted;
Tibet comes to mind as one place.  I have already put a copy of PGP into
the hands of someone who wants to communicate with an underground
church, and have also hinted to him about how to use anonymous
remailers, pseudonyms, and the like.  Maintaining communication in many
cases is essential to the survival to a particular cause, and the spread
of the gospel is no different.

I will also add in passing that PGP could possibly be of interest for
use by both moderate and radical pro-life groups, who now both fear
repression as a result of the publicity of the murder of the abortion
doctor in Florida.  (BIG DISCLAIMER: I am pro-life, and am totally
opposed to the killing of abortion doctors.  I am NOT advocating any
position on abortion on the list, however, and will not defend my
position here.  Remember that just because YOU oppose a group does not
mean they don't deserve privacy!)


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.6.2

iQCVAwUBLsvK+TER5KvPRd0NAQFNGAQAqZTgWPo8FPWej4Bj1eotN5fYPE9SM1Yq
8TCzG5JSjoTroAmmCGjMLp0zyCFHmz/Lf0PSkUzUURGr8KMkVUfzuMRaPc5OA33u
1RtmuOlaQrLNoECJvpasLlf54FSPuAXFiaAFGD+9A8kXCIsgP3Cc87tGhouFswpY
Mku0dPUm9Bc=
=k1kL
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----




