From: "Avi Baumstein" <avi@clas.ufl.edu>
Date: Fri, 16 Dec 94 20:25:05 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: rehash of fbi v. weaver, or 'freeh is a jerk'
Message-ID: <1326.avi@clas.ufl.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


i happen to be on the road in tennessee, and read this editorial in the
knoxville new-sentinel. i don't remember seeing anything about this when it
happened...but since freeh and the fbi seem to be disliked these days,
here's some more fodder for the fire.

-avi

ps - hopefully this isn't a repeat, but being on the road, i'm mail-delayed
at least 24 hours.

The Knoxville News-Sentinel, Dec 16, 1994, pA16

DISTURBING SILENCE
-FBI chief taking his time acting on report about Idaho shootout

All eyes are on Louis Freeh, director of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, as he ponders disciplinary action in the infamous shootout at
Ruby Ridge, Idaho, in 1992. This being the end of 1994, one starts to wonder
what is taking the director so long.

Excessive use of force by the FBI is no trivial matter. Citizens might
gather from the Idaho case that the government claims special license to
abuse the rights of loners with extremist views.

It is a year and a half already since the government made a fool of itself
by trying Randy Weaver and Kevin Harris for murder inthe death of a deputy
US marshal. The jury sided with the defendants, and the US district judge
said 75 percent of the evidence and testimony presented by the prosecution
had aided the defense.

But to go back to the beginning, Weaver, a former Green Beret, was a member
of the Christian Identity sect and a racial speratist. He had retreated with
his wife and children to a remote mountain cabin, where they and their young
friend Harris lived.

Weaver's first run-in with the law was induced by undercover agents. They
offered to buy two shotguns from him if he sawed off the barrels, making the
weapons illegal. He did so, and they arrested him. He failed to show up for
trial, though the government later was forced to admit that he was given the
wrong court date.

Then began 20 months' surveillance of the Weaver cabin. On Aug. 21, 1992,
the Weavers' dog discovered several agents camouflaged int he woods. The
agents shot the dog. In the ensuing exchange of fire, 14-year-old Sam Weaver
was killed by a bullet in the back, and Harris shot the deputy -- in
self-defense, he said.

The next day, the agents returned, reinforced by the 50-member Hostage
Rescue Team. The commander of the HRT never attempted to interview the
agents who survived the first encounter. Also, the FBI's policy on use of
deadly force was relaxed: Instead of firing if lives were in danger, agents
were ordered to shoot any armed adult at the scene.

Thus was the stage set for final tragedy. An FBI marksman fired at Weaver
and Harris outside the cabin. Both men were wounded, and Weaver's wife was
killed, standing inside the cabin with her baby in her arms.

A 542-page Justice Department report was completed last April. It has not
been released. Director Freeh's disturbing silence is compunded by his
promotion last week of the agent who had overall responsibility for the
Weaver operation.

What conclusion would Freeh recommend the public draw, if not that a
federal government willing enough to jail overzealous Los Angeles policemen
will arrogently circle the wagons to protect it's own?




