From: sommerfeld@orchard.medford.ma.us (Bill Sommerfeld)
Date: Tue, 29 Mar 94 08:05:33 PST
To: smb@research.att.com
Subject: questions for review committee.
In-Reply-To: <9403282338.AA13435@bloom-beacon.mit.edu>
Message-ID: <199403291556.KAA00736@orchard.medford.ma.us>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Question:
	How many bits of true "hardware randomness" go into the
generation of each set of unit keys?

Question:
	Exactly how are these random numbers generated?  Which entity
or entities provide the hardware and/or software to generate them?
Are they generated inside the "vault" at the time of programming or
"off-line"?

Question:
	Are any of the random inputs to the key generation algorithm
held constant during the generation of a "batch" of chips?  If so,
what is the justification for this practice?

Question: 
	What is the current batch size?  What will the batch size be
if production reaches ~1 million units per year, or ~4000 per work
day?

Question:
	What assurances are there that the key generation algorithm
documented and examined by the review committee is the one actually
used in production?

Question:
	What assurances are there that the encryption algorithm
studied by the review committee is the same as the one implemented by
the chip?  More specifically, have several members of the review
committee each coded their own SKIPJACK implementations, including the
escrow protocols, "from scratch" on computer systems not owned or
provided by the U.S. government, and compared their outputs to that of
the chips under study?  If this is not feasible, please explain why.

Question:
	What assurances are there that the actual physical chip(s)
implementing the EES implements exactly and only the skipjack
algorithm, the documented escrow procedures, and other publicly
documented features?  Are there any VLSI experts on the review
committee?  If so, what chips have they designed, and what chips have
they "reverse engineered"?

----

By "assurances" I mean that there is an active process in place for
validating compliance to a particular requirement such that no single
*organization*, or single model of hardware can "fail" in a way such
that violation of the requirement goes undetected.

I consider the set of current and former employees of the Executive
Branch of the U.S. Government to be a single organization for purposes
of assurance.

Addendum to all of these:

If this information is classified, please justify this classification
etc., etc.,

Steve, I hope you don't consider any of these "have you stopped
beating your spouse"..

						- Bill


					




