From: James E. Hoburg <hoburg@ultryx.com>
Date: Fri, 25 Feb 94 07:01:22 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Clipper Death Threat
Message-ID: <9402251452.AA24599@ramsesii.ultryx.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


  I've lurked on cypherpunks on-and-off  in the past.  Since last departing,
I  came  across  the  latest John Perry Barlow/Wired broadside  on  Clipper.
Enough.  I am  working with  a  small handful of  other  net denizens  in my
locale (Columbus, OH)  to begin a grass-roots consciousness  raising  effort
about Clipper.   We  are trying to assemble info-kits for  the  local media,
drum up the assistance of politically active civil libertarians in the area,
and  whatever  else  we can  do to  start a snowball rolling.   Any ideas or
strategies you would care to forward would be most appreciated.  However...

  The first hurdle I can see now is the eye-glaze factor for John Q. Public.
Where can  I  find  more layman-oriented  information sources?   Like  these
sorts:

1.  Simple  explanation of cryptography, *what* not  how. Maybe  a little on
public/private keys.

2.   Why laymen, corporations, etc.  need access to strong encryption.  Good
analogies are  needed here.  (e.g., wireless  telecom is easily compromised,
etc.)
    	
3.  Why we have a right to strong encryption.
    
4.  How the Clipper implementation infringes on our rights.

5.  Arguments for/against Clipper, key escrow, and DoJ implementation.

6.  Why public (read congressional) hearings are needed.
    e.g. Administration rationale for clipper.
    	 Abuse of key escrow.
    	 Guarantee to alternative encryption.
    	 Guarantee to import/export of encryption.

  Having  actively tried to get generic folks  to see this one  coming, it's
clear that the Clipper debate will never be more than a tempest in a nerdpot
unless we  can present both Clipper  facts and fears in a way that will help
the man-in-the-street see this threat for what it is and give a hoot.

  Perhaps  these  sorts of  information  resources  are  a  bit  beyond  the
cypherpunk  focus  (cypherpunks write code.)  But I would really  appreciate
any pointers to promising directions for info.

Regards,

--  James Emerson Hoburg
    NET: <hoburg@ultryx.com>  VOX: +1-614-885-8799  FAX: +1-614-885-5171
0
    They that can give up essential liberty to obtain a little 
    temporary safety deserve neither liberty nor safety.
      - Ben Franklin
0




