From: jamesd@netcom.com (James A. Donald)
Date: Tue, 4 Oct 94 18:19:38 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: He's dead Jim (Chomsky)
In-Reply-To: <9410041812.AA27339@nately.UCSD.EDU>
Message-ID: <199410050111.SAA06427@netcom8.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Anonymous writes
> In this, James A. Donald finds:
> >To put this in its proper context, Chomsky also believes
> >in socialism, in the sense of the "people" controlling the
> >means of production, distribution, and supply, and in
> >particular, the "people" running the mass media.
> 
> What? Non sequitur!  No where in Chomsky's quote do we find any remote
> resemblance of a reference to mass media;

I said context, not quote.

There is ample Chomsky material outside this quote supporting socialism,
and as well as socialism, those measures that socialism makes necessary,
namely silencing of dissent, mass murder, and rule by terror.

My analysis of the quote on political correctness follows about twenty 
lines after my discussion of Chomsky vs the Capitalist Mass Media.


And yes, I know, you do not need to tell me.  No where in
Chomsky's writings does he say "Mass murder is great".

He merely provides and endless stream of justifications and
rationalizations for particular mass murderers, most infamously
Pol Pot, and for mass murder in general.

Yes, Chomsky says, repeatedly, that he is sincerely opposed to mass murder,
whilst at the same time vigorously arguing in favor of it, the same
hypocritical gimmick as he does on free speech, in the quote under
discussion.

For example in addition to comparing Pol Pots methods to de nazification
by the french resistance, he also argues that the chaos created by
the American bombing forced Pol Pot to use harsh measures, and so 
on and so forth.  As on PC, he piously proclaims himself to be be 
opposed to Pol Pot, whilst vigorously defending him, and like 
totalitarians, and vigorously defending the methods used by Pol Pot, 
and savagely condemning anyone who would criticize Pol Pot, or Idi 
Amin, etc.

This is why I call him a totalitarian, not because he endorses
political correctness.


-- 
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------
We have the right to defend ourselves and our
property, because of the kind of animals that we              James A. Donald
are.  True law derives from this right, not from
the arbitrary power of the omnipotent state.                jamesd@netcom.com




