From: lassie!jim%lassie@netcom.com (Jim Nalbandian)
Date: Fri, 6 May 94 03:37:20 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Regarding Mr. Nalbandian's Comments (fwd)
Message-ID: <198@lassie.lassie.uucp>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


[1] If Joe ComputerUser does not know how to use his computer for more
than word processing and playing games, at this point, he probably doesn't
NEED PGP. If he knows enough to realize what little privacy he actually
has, he will go looking for security. With luck, he will run into someone
who can steer him towards PGP...

Wow, word processer, so i guess that if you are just using a word
processer that you don't need PGP? As usual you distance yourself
from computer users by placing youself on a pedistal above them.
Why is that? Do you feel superior to them? Is it something that
was lacking in your childhood? I bet you could code 500 lines a day
when you were in grade school. I bet you never have just used a
word processer or played games on a computer? Have you? With luck
somebody will give me the winning numbers to the lottery next
week, too. And with wings pigs can fly.

[2] The purpose of this list is not to insure that everyone has a copy and
knows how to use PGP (though most of us would consider that a worthwhile
goal). As it has been said more and more often, 'Cypherpunks write CODE!'.
This is a discussion group about the practicality and implementation of
specific forms of cryptography and cryptographic applications (digital
money, key servers, etc). [ This is not to belittle the political
content of the group, though. ] Groups like the EFF are interested in
helping new users to the Internet learn all about it, and are doing a good
job of it so far. If you are that concerned about the masses not knowing about
cryptography, try sending a note to the EFF (with the caps lock OFF!) and
ask them to include a section on privacy, cryptography and PGP in the next
version of the Big Dummy's Guide To The Internet. It's a start.


Why should I waste my time? You waste your time by writing crypto
that WILL be outlawed and take no action to distribute. And as
usual people on here can't see farther than Internet. They really
can'nt. Must be a pedistal thing. Why write crypto or even purport
it's use if you are to deprive the real people that could aid your
cause the use use of "PGP" or other sutible non-CLIPPER
cryptography. More people are off Internet than on.? 

[3] Sending badly composed rants to seven hundred people and then
publically posting a response to a private message is not the way to be
taken seriously.


I thought there was only a couple hundred on this list? cool 700! I
have no idea what you mean by public post of private message?
 

--
          * Spelling errors are intentional and international *
        Jim Nalbandian       netcomsv!lassie!jim%lassie@netcom.com
        Tempe, Arizona, USA                   N7SZS@K7BUC.AZ.US.NA
No free man shall ever be de-barred the use of arms. The strongest
reason for the people to retain  there right to keep and bear arms
is as a last  resort to  protect  themselves  against  tyranny  in
government. <-------- Thomas Jefferson                            --




