From: Stanton McCandlish <mech@eff.org>
Date: Wed, 9 Mar 94 13:42:28 PST
To: ssteele@eff.org (Shari Steele)
Subject: 80% of even the *NON*net public oppose Clipper (...when informed)
Message-ID: <199403092033.PAA05551@eff.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


"In a Time/CNN poll of 1,000 Americans conducted last week by Yankelovich
Partners, two-thirds said it was more important to protect the privacy of
phone calls than to preserve the ability of police to conduct wiretaps.
When informed about the Clipper Chip, 80% said they opposed it."

- Philip Elmer-Dewitt, "Who Should Keep the Keys", TIME, Mar. 4 1994

EIGHTY PERCENT, folks.  You know what that means.  This is now the time to
spread the word on Clipper, far, fast and wide.  If there are 3 local
newspapers in your area, send an op-ed or letter to the editor, to ALL of
them, and magazines too.  If you are a pro writer, time to start
writing articles.  Redistribute Clipper to the net, and especially to
BBSs.  The problem here is one, and one only: not enough people know
about Clipper yet.  When EVERYONE does, even Clinton dares not go against
the will of 80% of the populace.  Do you run a BBS?  Make an anouncement
about Clipper (and the 80% opposition rate!) as one of your login screens.
Put it in your .signature or your .plan, print up some flyers, put it in
your zine, wear it on a t-shirt, whatever it takes to get the message out. 

Leahy's hearings are going to be something else.  The Cantwell bill will
help.  But nothing will be as effective as mass public outcry.  Don't
just sit here.  Usenet will be here tomorrow, too.  Do something to
educate someone about Clipper and the threat it poses to our privacy
NOW.  After that, if you have yet to send in your short letter of support
for the Cantwell bill (HR2637), which will reduce export restrictions on 
non-Clipper cryptography, please do it today.  Send to cantwell@eff.org.

-- 
Stanton McCandlish * mech@eff.org * Electronic Frontier Found. OnlineActivist
"In a Time/CNN poll of 1,000 Americans conducted last week by Yankelovich
Partners, two-thirds said it was more important to protect the privacy of
phone calls than to preserve the ability of police to conduct wiretaps.
When informed about the Clipper Chip, 80% said they opposed it."
- Philip Elmer-Dewitt, "Who Should Keep the Keys", TIME, Mar. 4 1994




