From: marc@tanda.isis.org (Marc Thibault)
Date: Sun, 20 Mar 94 13:01:47 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Royal Bank privacy waiver
Message-ID: <ei6HJc1w165w@tanda.on.ca>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Gentlefolk,

The following is in light-grey small print on the back of the current
Royal Bank Visa Gold card application. It appears to be an attempt to
end-run privacy legislation. The net is that using your Gold Card
gives the Royal Bank, and anyone else it chooses to share information
with, permission to do what it wants with any information about you
that it has, has ever had, or ever will have; even if you are no
longer a client. It is worth the read.

...
I will comply with the Cardholder Agreement you will send to me when
you issue, renew or replace my card. If I sign, use or accept my card,
it will mean that I have received and read the agreement. It will also
mean that I have understood and agreed with you to everything written
there.

You may collect credit and other financially-related information about
me (Information) from me, from credit bureaux and from other parties.
You may use information as follows:

- You may give it to credit bureaux and other parties who have or may
have financial or other business dealings with me:

- You may use it to determine my financial situation;

- You may use it for any purpose related to the provision to me of
services I request from you. You may also give it to anyone who works
with or for you, but only as needed for the provision of those
services;

- You may use it to promote your services to me. You may also add it
to client lists you prepare and use for this purpose; and

- You may share it with your affiliates (where the law allows this),
in the form of client lists or otherwise, so that they may promote
their services to me.

If I have ever given you my social insurance number, you may treat it
as information and use it as an aid to identify me with credit bureaux
and other parties.

Even if I am no longer your client, you may keep Information in your
records and use it for the purposes noted above.

If a co-applicant signs this Application, they also agree and consent
to everything written here and in the Cardholder Agreement.

.... At the bottom of the page, in bold black letters, for comic
relief, are the words

            "RESPECTING YOUR PRIVACY IS IMPORTANT TO US".


        Cheers,
                Marc

---
 Marc Thibault                             | Any warming, global
 Automation Architect                      | or otherwise, is
 Oxford Mills, Ontario, Canada             | welcome.

-----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
Version: 2.3a

mQA9AiyT2YcAAAEBgKVboQejsR2t2U70HoWOXTIqlWUCRGkTht8Yn/4kuzWby/e3
Z9tT8RHJbAx9us7QZwAFEbQdVGFuZGEgTWFpbCA8bWFyY0B0YW5kYS5vbi5jYT4=
=aFhG
-----END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----

            

 





