From: rcain@netcom.com (Robert Cain)
Date: Wed, 9 Feb 94 19:20:14 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com (cypherpunks)
Subject: Re: Crypto Regulation Reform
In-Reply-To: <m0pUQk4-00010YC@infinity.hip.berkeley.edu>
Message-ID: <199402100302.TAA02278@mail.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Sameer sez:
> 
> 	Idea:
> 	Apply for the patent. If they decide to classify it release
> the idea through the anonymous remailers.

Right, spend a bunch of money for nothing and risk prison for "espionage".
I think that is what they charge you with when you release classified
info.  No thanks, Sameer.  There isn't an anonymous mailer yet that I
would trust and do you honestly think my account (hell, my life) would
not be monitored if such a classification were to occur?

I do have an idea though that might satisfy the skeptics.  I will
divulge the method to *one* of you for evaluation that is considered
capable and trusted by this community at large under a non-disclosure
agreement if my attorney says there is such a thing that can be written
between individuals which has teeth.  If anybody wants to take me up on
this, first get permission from the individual and email me the name
and email address.  He/she must have PGP and it must reside on a stand
alone machine connected only by a modem to another machine on the net.
Fair enough?  I would prefer someone that has followed everything in
crypto though for a few years to help me determine if there is in fact
any prior art I am not aware of.  That was one of the reasons I brought
it up here, to see if I would get a bunch of "It's already been done"
responses.  None so far.

In fact if that person is the creative type and can bring something
to the party (I think there is a way to make it even more secure
between strangers but I haven't been able to tease it out of my 
brain completely yet) I would conider co-filing with that person.


Peace,

Bob

-- 
Bob Cain    rcain@netcom.com   408-354-8021


           "I used to be different.  But now I'm the same."


--------------PGP 1.0 or 2.0 public key available on request.------------------



