From: Competitive Enterprise Institute <cei@access.digex.net>
Date: Thu, 16 Jun 94 09:51:22 PDT
To: Free-marketeers everywhere <cei@access.digex.net>
Subject: Electronic distribution of op-eds from the Competitive Enterprise Institute!
Message-ID: <Pine.3.89.9406161224.A18731-0100000@access3.digex.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


[Please distribute this as widely as you see fit.  Thanks.  -- Sasha Volokh]

The Competitive Enterprise Institute is pleased to announce

	the CEI list!

Established in May, the CEI list already has over 250 subscribers.  The
CEI list distributes our op-ed pieces, and perhaps other items of
interest.  To subscribe, drop a note to: 

	Alexander "Sasha" Volokh at cei@digex.com

But first, a little bit about CEI: 


		"In today's political climate of higher taxes and the
		expansion of government, the need for free market voices
		like CEI is critical to the survival of America's free
		enterprise system."
					- The Honorable Dick Armey
					  U.S. House of Representatives


Founded in March of 1984, the Competitive Enterprise Institute is 
committed to advancing the principles of free enterprise and limited 
government.  The Institute is founded on the belief that free markets and 
individual liberty best serve the public interest by providing freedom of 
choice and equal opportunity.  The Institute's articles on key policy 
issues appear regularly in major media publications such as *The Wall 
Street Journal*, *The Washington Post*, and *USA Today*.  The Institute's 
analysts also appear on international and national television programs 
such as *The MacNeil/Lehrer News Hour*, *Good Morning America*, CNN's 
*Crossfire* and *Larry King Live*.  CEI analysts can also be heard on 
numerous national and local radio shows across the country.

The Institute's policy analysts concentrate on the following issue areas:

	ECONOMIC REGULATION
	We analyze the human and economic costs of government tax and
	regulatory policies.

	ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES
	The Institute's work emphasizes the reinstatement of private
	incentive and accountability centering on enforcement of property
	rights and targeted liability for pollution.

		Environmental Education Project
		Production and distribution of materials that examine
		environmental issues based on the latest scientific and
		economic research.

	FREE MARKET LEGAL PROGRAM
	Launched in 1986, this program seeks to carry the battle for
	economic rights into the legal arena.  Issues and cases are
	selected on the basis of their importance as policy and precedent
	and on the likelihood that the Institute can make a significant
	contribution.  Some recent activities have addressed FDA reform,
	rent control, and Corporate Average Fuel Economy standards (CAFE).

		"Death by Regulation" project
		Aimed at shifting the policy debate toward market-based
		approaches to risk management.  It attempts to do so not
		through conventional policy analysis, but by focusing on
		previously unrecognized victims of regulatory failure.  In
		particular, the project demonstrates that risk management
		by government can often have lethal effects.





