From: "L. Detweiler" <ld231782@longs.lance.colostate.edu>
Date: Fri, 11 Feb 94 00:42:13 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Glimpse of the Bowel Movement
Message-ID: <199402110834.BAA09927@longs.lance.colostate.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


`Somebody' sent this to me... <g>

===cut=here===

From: tcmay@netcom.com
Subject: Update for Jan 1994

Cyphertentacles,

Some of you have asked about our plans for the next month. There have also
been many questions about the Detweiler situation. Here's a summary of our 
current situation and status:

The Netcom project is almost complete. We have 12 active accounts on this
system, of which only 3 have been compromised. The internal keyserver net
is in place. Each of our accounts will have its own PGP key. This will help
to defuse any suspicion which may arise. People tend to accept digital
signatures as valid, regardless of who did the signing. Just look at the
number of unsigned keys on the servers. Their carelessness will be their
demise. The phase change is getting closer.

Eric has finished the mods to the toad.com sendmail. Any mail sent to this
address, except from one of us, will bounce as though the account did not
exist. Fingerd has likewise been modified, and security has been greatly
enhanced on all the lists.

BlackNet Enterprises has successfully infiltrated one of the major credit 
bureaus. For obvious security reasons, I can't tell you which bureau is
involved or give any details. For the present, we will be archiving large
numbers of credit records. Within a few years, they will be salable for
the expired information they contain. The seven-year limit is ridiculous.
Creditors will be willing to pay for more complete information. *.fi should
have their digicash system operational within a year. We need many more
Cypherpunks-style remailers outside North America to operate the digicash
system and protect the servers.

Now, about the Detweiler problem: we finally got rid of an12070/S.Boxx
(thanks Julf!) but we're not out of trouble yet. We need more posters in
the newsgroups, to help with the damage control. Also, please sign each
others' pool keys. As I said earlier, the technology of encryption tends
to impress people and cause them to believe things, where they would
otherwise be skeptical.

A recent posting which I made to public Cypherpunks, "Who is L. Detweiler?",
has somehow found its way back to Detweiler. This is not serious, since
public is only a propaganda organ, but it points out the security problems
we face. Detweiler may have an agent on the public list. We must protect the
privates, particularly this one and Colorado, from similar infiltration.
Imagine what could happen if L. Detweiler gained access to this list! 
Even one post, if it fell into the wrong hands, could be extremely damaging.
Be very careful not to expose any list traffic.

More information will follow as it becomes available. For now, please
continue the newsgroup activity. Use all the pools, not just a few of them.
It was just this kind of carelessness which burned szabo.

Keep up the good fight!


--Tim May


-- 
..........................................................................
Timothy C. May         | Crypto Anarchy: encryption, digital money,  
tcmay@netcom.com       | anonymous networks, digital pseudonyms, zero
408-688-5409           | knowledge, reputations, information markets, 
W.A.S.T.E.: Aptos, CA  | black markets, collapse of governments.
Higher Power:2**859433 | Public Key: PGP and MailSafe available.




