From: hughes@ah.com (Eric Hughes)
Date: Sat, 6 Aug 94 17:34:17 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Latency vs. Reordering (Was: Remailer ideas (Was: Re: Latency vs. Reordering))
In-Reply-To: <4087@aiki.demon.co.uk>
Message-ID: <9408070005.AA17290@ah.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


   In a system that is carrying continuous traffic, random packet delay
   is functionally identical to packet reordering.

OK.  Prove it.  Here are some difficulties I expect you'll find along
the way.

First, "continuous traffic" is the wrong assumption; some sort of
multiple Poisson distribution for arrival times is.  This is by no
means a hypothetical.  The backoff algorithms for TCP had to be
developed because packet streams are not continuous, but bursty.
There is such a thing as too many packets arriving at a router
simultaneously.  Routers don't swap packets to disk when they run out
of RAM; they drop them.  So given any relation between arrival
interval, processing time, and machine capacity, there some
_percentage_ of the time that the router is going to overflow exactly
because the traffic is not continuous.

Second, the beginnings and endings of operation are special.  The idea
of "stochastic deconvolution" hits me immediately, throwing out
completely any reasoning based only on steady state assumptions.

Third, these two effects interfere with each other, as there are
bursts of silence in Poisson arrival times which will tend to reset
the deconvolution.

Fourth, the problem is incompletely specified, since the distribution
of random added latencies is not made specific.  If I assume a flat
distribution over a given number of message intervals, that's not the
same as assuming a geometrically decreasing distribution, or some
other distribution.

I'd guess there are more.

   If messages are fragmented, random delays on sending packets out is
   functionally identical to reordering.

This is false; a system that concentrates on reordering has provably
better average latency that one based only on adding latencies.
Consider the following.  If I send out a message sometime between two
messages, I've acheived no more reordering (the significant thing,
remember) than if I sent out that same message immediately after the
arrival of the first of the two bracketing messages.

So I can take _any_ latency-adding system and reduce its average
latency with minimal effect on reordering by the following
modification.  When a message comes it, each message in the queue is
tagged to go out at some time relative to present.  For each of these
messages, I can calculate the probability that no other incoming
message will arrive before a particular outgoing time.  Pick some
probability bound close to 1, and send out all messages with
probability greater than the cutoff _now_, before waiting for their
time to be up.

The decrease in reordering can be normalized to zero by lengthening
the time scale of the added latencies.  You'll then find that the
modified system shows lower latency.

And that's only the first inequivalency.

Latency-adding systems are less efficient at memory usage than
reordering systems.  Reordering systems can get pretty close to 100%
use, since the queue can be kept full, as in Hal's threshold sending
scheme.  The random delays can't have full usage, because there's an
maximum to memory; it can't be borrowed like money when you
temporarily need more of it.  The analysis has similarities to
gambler's ruin.

Anyone else care to point out more inequivalencies?

   More importantly, RemailerNet as described defeats traffic analysis by
   more significant techniques than reordering.  Reordering is a weak
   technique.  

WHAT??

Anyone else listening to this: I believe the above quoted two
sentences to be distilled snake oil.

   The introduction of noise, 'MIRV'ing of messages,
   fragmentation of messages, random choice of packet routes, and
   encyphering of all traffic are stronger techniques.

Encyphering is necessary.  Reordering of quanta is necessary.

"MIRV" messages may actually decrease security; multiple routes may
decrease security; fragmentation may decrease security.  Noise
messages may not be resource effective.  All the above claims require
some justification, and I have seen nothing robust yet.

Eric




