From: cfrye@ciis.mitre.org (Curtis D. Frye)
Date: Wed, 9 Feb 94 12:12:22 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: CFI- Foreign Available Cryptography Resources
Message-ID: <9402092015.AA15377@ciis.mitre.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


The Clinton Administration has transformed its Clipper/Capstone proposal
into a definitive policy that could pave the way for banning all
non-Clipper crytography in the United States.  I agree with most everyone
who reads these groups:  the thought scares the hell out of me, especially
given the "fight crime" mandate from recent public opinion polls.

I posted some of these thoughts in response to David Banisar's 7 February
press release on CPSR's reaction to the announcement.  In that post, I
offered to compile a list of cryptographic tools and resources that were
available outside of the United States (i.e., machines not physically
located in the US) if such a list hadn't already been done.  Stanton
McClandish indicated that it hadn't and urged me to "GO FOR IT!".

I'm going for it, but I need your help.  My work account with ftp access
will go away this Friday and the dial-up lines to my school account are
constantly busy.  I should have a digex.com account within the next two
weeks, but until then I won't have reliable archie/veronica/gopher access
to the Internet.

That's one reason I'm asking for help (the other is the sheer enormity of
searching every non-US machine).  If you live outside of the US or visit
non-US machines on occasion and know they store crypto resources, please
send me a directory listing at this email address (for now).  Also, if
there are any readme files or other program descriptions in those
directories, I would appreciate receiving an electronic copy of them as
well.

Furthermore, if any of you have product information about foreign-made
cryptographic equipment or software, I would be interested in seeing that
as well.  I can be reached by snail mail at:

Curtis D. Frye
100 Yeonas Cir. SE
Vienna, VA 22180
USA

I look forward to your support and hope to report back in a few weeks with
some preliminary results.


Curtis D. Frye
PRIVATE! Citizen
I don't speak for MITRE, they don't speak for me.






