From: rarachel@prism.poly.edu (Arsen Ray Arachelian)
Date: Thu, 19 May 94 20:22:12 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: WNSTORM UPDATE (STEGO RND CRYPT)
Message-ID: <9405200309.AA17515@prism.poly.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text


The following describes the a crypto program I've written.  This is an update
to WNSTORM which is on csua.berkeley.edu (?) was soda...  Mucho improvements
have been made.  Unfortunately, it will probably be a while before this winds
up in a readable directory... so until then you can request it from me,
and as long as you're in the USA I'll send you a copy...

Here's the blurb...

(send requests to rarachel@photon.poly.edy rather than replying to this
message if you want me to get to them quicker...)

WNSTORM(tm) 2.10  Copyright (C) 1994 by Ray (Arsen) Arachelian
                  All Rights Reserved, GTDR.   DO NOT EXPORT!!!
                  USA AND CANADA USE ONLY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

WNSTORM (White Nouse Storm) is a new cryptography and steganography software
package which I'm developing.  You can use WNSTORM to encrypt your files to
keep prying eyes from invading your privacy.  You can use WNSTORM to hide
files, be they text, or otherwise within PCX images (other image formats will
be supported in the future.)

WNSTORM's method of hiding files in PCX images is very secure.  With the right
kind of image, you won't even see any changes made to the picture unless you
look very very closely, and even then you are unlikely to recognize that there
is hidden data in the image.  (Some images don't work well, others work very
well.)

You can then take the PCX image containing the hidden data and send it to your
friend, or post it up publicly on the alt.binary.pictures.* or whatever.  Only
you and anyone you share the password with can get at the hidden data file!

More importantly, the intended recipient of the picture does not have to have a
previous copy of the image to get at the hidden data.

WNSTORM is also an encryption system.  Unlike conventional systems, WNSTORM
uses random numbers to hide and encrypt your file.  (see documentation for
technical details.)  WNSTORM's encryption uses elements of frequency hopping
(also known as spread spectrum transmissions) but instead of using it over
radio waves, it uses it on your files.  It does this by breaking up your
file into eight separate channels and mixing in anywhere between 16 to 240
other bogus random noise channels with your eight data channels.  The
number of bogus channels varies with each byte taken from your file.  The
position (similar to a frequency of a channel used by spread spectrum
communications) depends on the values in the bogus channels as well as your
password.   The password can be upto 150 characters (that's 1200 bits) however
this can easily be changed to longer passwords.

All the source code for WNSTORM and its supporting programs is also included.
It's there for you to examine and see that there are no back doors, and to
modify so as to improve it.

WNSTORM is >FREE<, but not public domain.  You may freely use it and give
copies away to anyone you like.  (see documentation for license information.)


Enjoy.
 -- Ray (Arsen) Arachelian
    rarachel@photon.poly.edu




