From: jamesd@netcom.com (James A. Donald)
Date: Mon, 5 Dec 94 09:41:56 PST
To: jcorgan@netcom.com (Johnathan Corgan)
Subject: Re: Oceania?
In-Reply-To: <Chameleon.4.00.941224215944.jcorgan@>
Message-ID: <199412051741.JAA00580@netcom8.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Johnathan Corgan writes
> Was this whole project a giant scam?  Has this been objectively
> demonstrated, or just suspected/believed?

Some of the participants were less than truthfull, to me
and to others.

Was it a scam?   In some cases they no doubt believed that
it was all for the greater good.  In other cases -- if some
people made money out of it, then it was a scam.  If it was
not a scam, then still they pursued their goal by evil
means.   I doubt that anyone made money out of it.

Either way they are untrustworthy people.

Myself, I would rather be stabbed in front than
behind.

The man who loudly says he is your friend, and loudly
points to common enemies, is seldom your friend.

The Oceania project will not succeed, though I wish
it well.

There is an alternative project that might succeed, perhaps
is already succeeding:

Many governments now recognize that they are incapable of
governing in a fashion that permits a modern technological
society.  So they are leasing -- not selling, but long
term leases -- regions to be governed by more competent
third parties.  Singapore is a major beneficiary of this.

They find government by Singapore particularly comforting
because Singapore has demonstrated expertise in minimizing
the dangerous infection of freedom that accompanies
capitalism.

But I am happy to report the disease seems difficult to contain.

Those free trade zones and special economic zones that are most
successful, are those that are most thoroughly free.




-- 
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------
We have the right to defend ourselves and our
property, because of the kind of animals that we        James A. Donald
are.  True law derives from this right, not from
the arbitrary power of the omnipotent state.            jamesd@netcom.comorg




