From: j.hastings6@genie.geis.com
Date: Mon, 18 Jul 94 02:04:28 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: L.A.-area meeting Karl Hess
Message-ID: <199407180904.AA100962259@relay2.geis.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


> > (The same Karl Hess who is involved in libertarian matters.)
 
> The same Karl Hess (sadly departed on the same day as Tricky Dick
> Nixon) who wrote for Goldwater: "Extremism in the defense of liberty
> is no vice, moderation no virtue"
 
When William F. Buckley was here in Southern California to give a
speech at the AARP (buncha greedy old geezers), he was more
concerned about Karl Hess than Tricky Dick. So I heard from a
friend who met WFB there for other business.
 
Here's the real text:
"Extremism in the defense of liberty is no vice,
and let me remind you, moderation in the
pursuit of justice is no virtue."
 
Hess admitted that it came from someone else, I think Tom Paine,
but he was the one who got it into Goldwater's speech.
 
When I posted my Karl Hess club flyer a while back, a few people
implied that I was an incompetent, bungling moron just because I
forgot to say "L.A. area meeting." That's Los Angeles, not Lake
Arrowhead. In California, the United States of America, Western
Corporate Fascist Empire, Earth, Solar Federation Slave Labor Star
System. Others thought it was off-topic. One guy complained about
weird ASCII characters like , , , and perhaps . Heh heh heh.
 
So "let me remind you" if you are in the LOS ANGELES AREA,
or know someone who is and might be interested, that the
Karl Hess Club will meet in the Alpine Village Restaurant
Emerald Room, Monday, July 18, 1994, at 7 P.M.  Torrance Blvd
exit off the 110 freeway, presumably in the City of Torrance.
 
I will be doing my mega-bit to Sink Clipper by distributing PGP.
Victor Koman will deliver a timely presentation against NASA,
based on the research he did for his new novel, Kings of the
High Frontier. Three cheers for "Subnationals in Space."
 
No reservations needed, and free admission. If you want dinner, the
arrangement with the restaurant is $17 prix fixe incl tax and tip.
 
Kent - j.hastings6@genie.geis.com




