From: "Perry E. Metzger" <perry@imsi.com>
Date: Sat, 6 Aug 94 13:56:16 PDT
To: Adam Shostack <adam@bwh.harvard.edu>
Subject: IPv6 Security (was Re: RemailerNet)
In-Reply-To: <199408061739.NAA05213@bwh.harvard.edu>
Message-ID: <9408062056.AA18737@snark.imsi.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Adam Shostack says:
> An aside: Does anyone care to share thoughts on IPng's security
> features?

I'm the person assigned to edit/write the drafts for IPSP, which is to
be the successor to swIPe, and portions of which will be mandatory
parts of conformant IPv6 security. (Now that the decision on which
protocol is to be IPng, the politically correct name for IPng is
"IPv6").

The basic technique of packet encapsulation for security, which is the
basis for SP3, NLSP and swIPe, is being adopted, although the packet
format is being radically simplified even from that of swIPe,
consisting mainly of an SAID (what swIPe calls a "Policy Identifier).
Authentication and opaque cryptographic encapsulation formats are to
be slightly different for technical reasons.

The IPSP definition is (nearly) nailed down. The hard part, key
management, which is the layer that goes on top of IPSP, is still
being intensively discussed. I expect there will be extensive battles
there still to come, particularly on the naming of authenticated
entities -- to tell you how shaky things are there, no real proposals
are yet in draft RFC form. The one thing there is widespread agreement
on is that the DNS should be used to store keys, although this will
likely require extension of the maximum size currently permitted for
RRs in the DNS (512 bytes as defined right now.)

It is my hope that a unified IKMP (internet key management protocol)
and IPSP will provide sufficient functionality that no other security
mechanisms will be required for authenticating and securing remote
connections on the internet, and any telnet, ftp, finger, or anything
else that anyone does can be transparently made secure simply by
setting administrative requirements on the authentication and
encryption level needed by connections. Security of store-and-forward
traffic, like electronic mail and routing information, will still
require seperate mechanisms -- I hope the basic keys for those
mechanisms will be stored in the same way with the same naming, for
instance, and that most of the mechanisms will be shared.

It is also my hope that all trust mechanisms will be based on
web-of-trust rather than certification heirarchies, although that is
another speculation.

Perry





