From: FRODO@uhura.trinity.toronto.edu
Date: Sun, 11 Dec 94 20:21:33 PST
To: Cypherpunks Mailing List <cypherpunks@toad.com>
Subject: Hal Finney & Bob Rae and Ontario's Parliament
Message-ID: <MAILQUEUE-99.941211234723.352@uhura.trinity.toronto.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

All lines between this and the PGP header may be suspect.

This is what I posted to Ont.general this evening. Those who
are interested in getting more information about the
kerfuffle in Toronto over the posting through an anonymous
remailer might want to check out
    http://www.earth.org/~newsbites
(I believe that's it. You might want to try without
the directory.) Which contains muchos information, including
the discussion going through the newsgroups, and the Globe
and Mail article.)

The article below is what I posted to ont.general myself
this evening. Seemed a good chance to proselytize... ;) It
was signed, as below, with my shame-facedly new PGP key,
though the signature file was slightly different. (I've
managed to grab the real .sig off my unix account. As I
noted, one of my e-mail sites is currently not sending
mail.)
Article begins:

Short note.

Mike Harris' behavior in the legislature is the symptom
of either malevolence or incompetence or both. Either
way, he won't be getting my vote.

On the other hand, there are ways of protecting yourself
from forgeries such as this. You can't stop people from
sending such mail, but you *can* make mail that you
write unique.

PGP, a fully legal encryption program which the Ontario
government could use FOR FREE, has a signing protocol
so that recipients can check to make sure that your
mail did indeed come from you.

If you make it a standard that you don't send unsigned
mail, and don't post to newsgroups without signing what
you send, unsigned mail will be suspect. In this case,
the mail went through the cypherpunks anonymous
remailer at portal.com. I trust that whoever sent the
mail had enough computer sense to have chained it
through several remailers, if little else. We've been
through the arguments about "yes there was a
disclaimer," but people seem to be ignorant of the
fact that there are already ways of protecting yourself
from misrepresentation on the net.

The University of Toronto's CDF facility is currently
having a little problem with sending mail (ie, it
can't), so I'm posting this instead of sending it
directly to Bob Rae. Perhaps we should send him PGP for
Christmas?

Richard

- --
Richard Martin    ChemPhysCompSci 9T7+PEY = 9T8   g4frodo@cdf
Trinity College University of Toronto SVW92 martinrd@gpu.utcc
My opinions, when not poached. (or fried) frodo@uhura.trinity
[Tack a "toronto.edu" on the end of each e-mail address. I'm
faced with a mailing program with draconian margin policies.]

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.6.i

iQCVAgUBLuvVl6+lG3+zwTCVAQFPdwQAtX0fh0aJuhPC1mCUAlNDDi9tV0QB0yy8
cSNIlBxVgEzTl6K0geu25CSXSGh2N4dFdh6rHMPjkMkOsfcVPFI5nXb8+zHtfFgd
UxkU0mwhunyFzLCN4tm0UVKruzWmfV8bGV9EezSsRrmAeAsZwT9s5hJ3qdOnf3mn
twbGIn1Eadg=
=UI1+
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----




