From: Mats Bergstrom <matsb@sos.sll.se>
Date: Mon, 13 Jun 94 10:18:15 PDT
To: Cypherpunks <cypherpunks@toad.com>
Subject: DNA
Message-ID: <Pine.3.85.9406131137.A7527-0100000@cor.sos.sll.se>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Databases of fingerprints and retina-images might still have a future
for specialized applications but DNA-typing (why not on a simple blood
sample at birth) combined with a fixed social security number valid for
life will probably become a widely used method for governments to control
the identity of their serfs. Even without legislation stating compulsory
testing of all citizens there are great possibilities with this method.
Serologic tests for various reasons (i.e. HIV, rubella in pregnancy etc)
are routinely performed on a majority of the population in developed
countries. These samples are usually frozen and saved for decades (for
the purpose of comparison if the individual should fall ill; and for
research if something might get interesting) at most laboratries. DNA-
analysis efter thawing is no big deal with modern techniques. So if one
is planning to commit hideous crimes in the future, or if one has other
reasons to maintain DNA privacy, one should demand that blood samples
taken from oneself are destroyed after testing (alternatively take the
tests under a pseudonym).

Unfortunately there is no known method of encrypting one's DNA code
in situ but hopefully they will safely (in escrow?) encrypt it in
the databanks. For most purposes a cheapish imprint (sort of a hash
function) of an individual's DNA code will suffice, i.e. for secure
identification. Longer strains of code will give additional information
on the person's genetic dispositions of course (until now only for physical
diseases and risk factors but coding relating to schizophrenia and
psychopathy are expected Real Soon - the science of molecular biology
is in an exponential phase). For such an extended analysis it is, at
least for some more years, not enough with a frozen blood sample for
serologic testing or a blood/semen-stain from the clothes of a victim
but culturable cell-lines are necessary.

These observations were provoked by the following forwarded letter:
//mb

Date: Thu, 09 Jun 94 05:06:29 MST
From: mednews (HICNet Medical News)
To: hicnews
Subject: Course: DNA Databanks and Repositories
Message-ID: <iHJNNc7w165w@stat.com>

     DNA DATABANKS & REPOSITORIES will be presented 4-5 November 1994 at
     the Sheraton Inn Midway, St Paul Minnesota, USA.

     SPONSORS: Armed Forces Institute of Pathology and the American
     Registry of Pathology.

     GENERAL INFORMATION: AFIP Education Dept. (INT), 14th & Alaska Avenue,
     NW, Washington, DC, 20306-6000 USA; (301)427-5231; FAX (301)427-5001;
     or INTERNET: LOWTHER@email.afip.osd.mil

     CONTENT: DNA typing of biologic tissues and fluids has revolutionized
     criminalistics.  This technology is so powerful that over one half of
     all states have legislatively mandated the creation of DNA databanks
     and repositories for law enforcement purposes with other states
     considerating the same.  The passage of the federal DNA Identification
     Act will bolster the growth of these databanks.  DNA repositories also
     have been established for military remains identification, for
     scientific human geneic diversity studies, and for numerous public
     health reasons.  This is the third national conference devoted
     strictly to the establishment of DNA databanks and repositories.

        This conference is designed to be a practical discussion on the
     creation and the set-up of DNA databanks/repositories, focusing on
     forensic identification.  It is intended for DNA repository directors,
     policy makers, and administrators considerating establishment of a DNA
     collections program, and other interested persons.  Lectures will be
     presented on current state sex offender databanks, the FBI's National
     DNA Index, the DNA Identification Act, practical aspects of databank
     setup and administration, and the associated legal and ethical issues.
     Convictions based on the Minnesota State DNA Database will be featured
     and a tour of the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension's facility
     will be conducted.         (English)

     COURSE DIRECTOR:
      Victor W. Weedn, LTC, MC, USC

     TUITION:  $220.









