From: gtoal@an-teallach.com (Graham Toal)
Date: Thu, 5 May 94 04:40:28 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Keyserver service outRAGE
Message-ID: <199405051140.MAA22082@an-teallach.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


: From: Black Unicorn <unicorn@access.digex.net>

: This is silly.

: Why a server would want to use licensed code is understandable.

: Why a server would try to restrict keys generated by versions other
: than 2.4 & the mysterious 2.5 is moronic.

They were told to as part of the deal to get the license.

: I will not use this server regardless of which version I have and use,
: and I urge others to resist the use of this server as well.

: This policy only serves to create suspicion and drain confidence in
: versions of PGP over 2.3a.

No no, you missed the point!  2.5 will be made *public*!  It's not
another private viacrypt job.

: I ask the following questions:

: Will source code be available for PGP2.5?

Of course.

: Who was responsible for the modifications that make PGP2.5, version 2.5?

: I ask the operators of the remaining servers to remove the MIT server
: from their automatic mirror update list and to avoid a policy of excluding
: keys generated by any "non-conforming" software in their own operations.

I don't think they'll listen.  They understand the politics better
than you do.

: I ask users of PGP not to add future keys to the offending server.

Why?  Add it to any one and it'll end up there.

: I call on cypherpunks to estlablish less formal key servers and develop 
: more stealthy and secure methods of key distribution.

Now you're just talking crap.

Uni, hush now, shut up, and listen.  You've entirely missed the point here.
This is a major tactical strike for pgp.  We finally have an entirely
legal pgp, thanks to some excellent net.politics from the guys at MIT.

The restriction on what new keys they accept was part of the deal, but
stop and think what it really means - is it going to affect *anybody*?
And what's to stop you fetching 2.5 and loading/re-dumping your old
key from that version?

This is *good news*, and we don't need any half-cocked wallies spreading
FUD over what is the best thing to happen to pgp ever.

G




