From: sameer <sameer@c2.org>
Date: Mon, 15 Aug 94 03:30:08 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: The NEXUS-Berkeley announces low-cost internet access
Message-ID: <199408151026.DAA19125@infinity.c2.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



	Community ConneXion announces low-cost internet access

	Community ConneXion: The NEXUS-Berkeley, an Internet Access
Provider in Berkeley, California, announced the installation of a
modem pool for general dialup usage today.
	
	Community ConneXion (c2, c^2, or c-squared) has been founded
in order to build up a strong community in the internet both locally
and globally. "We are linked into the worldwide NEXUS-Gaia movement
which is building up a worldwide community of like-minded
network-oriented individuals," said Sameer Parekh, the Network
Administrator.
	Community ConneXion offers many different level of service,
including shell accounts, simple mailboxes, world-wide-web server
space, psuedo-anonymous privacy services, and domain name service with
mail forwarding.
	The NEXUS-Berkeley is putting a large emphasis on user
community involvement. "We want everyone involved to feel vital to the
success of the project because they *are*," said Sameer. He emphasized
the fact that not only are people vital for a clientele, but necessary
for the establishment of a strong community.

	They are offering one free week of service to people who sign
up. To connect call 510-549-1383 (if that is busy try
510-841-0909.. this number will be removed on August 20th but replaced
with a larger modem pool on 549-1383) and login as "guest".
	If you already have internet access, information can be had by
using your favorite World-Wide-Web browser to look at
http://www.c2.org or, if you don't have access to a WWW browser,
telnet to c2.org and login as "guest".
	In order to subscribe to our mailing list, send the message
"subscribe nexus-berkeley" to majordomo@c2.org. (From a UNIX prompt:
"echo subscribe nexus-berkeley | mail majordomo@c2.org") If you have
any questions, send mail to info@c2.org.




