From: frissell@panix.com (Duncan Frissell)
Date: Mon, 22 Aug 94 18:44:11 PDT
To: Jim Hart <cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Digital cash market
Message-ID: <199408230142.AA15884@panix.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


At 05:16 PM 8/21/94 -0500, Jim Hart wrote:

>At this point Duncan Frissel will regail us with some wonderful
>scheme, understandable only to lawyers, that can be used to
>get credit cards under aliases, perfectly legal if you
>use a doubly nested corporate structure going through Aruba
>and the Caymans, and the IRS and FBI don't decide to get
>to get you on some technicality Duncan failed to mention.

I can't recall any time I've laid out a complicated structure to avoid the
privacy invaders.  Most of my techniques are simple and depend merely on a
willingness to not do the conventional things that other people tell you are
necessary if you are to prosper.  

In fact, hasn't Tim May actually accused me of offering solutions that are
too simple and that are not based on careful and exotic Harry Margolis sort
of International Tax Planning?

The many people who have gotten anonymous Visa and Mastercard credit cards
for example have used the simple scheme of applying for a secured credit
card in a nome de guerre.  Others have opened bank accounts in convenient
names that come with Visa debit cards.  It is actually easier than it has
ever been to obtain credit cards in names other than your own.  Signet Bank
is promoting it's secured credit card with TV ads.

>The surprisingly large number of folks who actually do go to Frissell style
>lengths is proof that there are plenty of peope who care about privacy.  

Gee, I wish you could convince my wife that I "go to great lengths."  She
always accuses me of taking the easy way out.  <G>

DCF

"How is it that the bulk of the 'Great Unwashed' manage to stand out in the
pouring rain and never get wet?  Persons of all ages whine these days about
how tough and boring things are even though there are more exciting and
profitable things going on in the world today than ever before in human
history."





