From: jkreznar@ininx.com (John E. Kreznar)
Date: Fri, 29 Apr 94 04:28:34 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: CIA & FBI, a marriage made in ___?
In-Reply-To: <199404290328.AA10287@access3.digex.net>
Message-ID: <9404291127.AA15821@ininx>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

Unicorn writes:

> If the current structure of government is proper true to the 
> constitution, and more importantly the goal of a stable government with 
> co-equal branches, then respecting those "concepts of law" is to embrace 
> centralism, regulation of markets, export restrictions and an ever 
> growing executive branch.

> If the current structure of government is improper, and goes beyond the 
> bounds of power the framers intended, then respecting those "concepts of 
> law" is to reject the current state of affairs.

Surely someone of Unicorn's erudition is aware of Lysander Spooner's
words on this subject, but just to remind the others, here are some of
them:

Spooner wrote these words in 1869 (_eighteen_ sixty-nine); imagine what
he might have written today!

	The Constitution has no inherent authority or obligation.  It has no
	authority or obligation at all, unless as a contract between man and
	man.  And it does not so much as even purport to be a contract between
	persons now existing.  It purports, at most, to be only a contract
	between persons living eighty years ago....  Furthermore, we know,
	historically, that only a small portion even of the people then existing
	were consulted on the subject, or asked, or permitted to express either
	their consent or dissent in any formal manner.  Those persons, if any,
	who did give their consent formally, are all dead now....  _And the
	Constitution, so far as it was their contract, died with them._  They
	had no natural power or right to make it obligatory upon their children.

	...

	APPENDIX.

	Inasmuch as the Constitution was never signed, nor agreed to, by
	anybody, as a contract, and therefore never bound anybody, and is now
	binding upon nobody; and is, moreover, such an on as no people can ever
	hereafter be expected to consent to, except as they may be forced to do
	so at the point of the bayonet, it is perhaps of no importance what its
	true legal meaning, as a contract, is.  Nevertheless, the writer thinks
	it proper to say that, in his opinion, the Constitution is no such
	instrument as it has generally been assumed to be; but that by false
	interpretations, and naked usurpations, the government has been made in
	practice a very widely and almost wholly, different thing from what the
	Constitution itself purports to authorize.  He has heretofore written
	much, and could write much more, to prove that such is the truth.  But
	whether the Consitution really be one thing, or another, this much is
	certain --- that it has either authorised such a government as we have
	had, or has been powerless to prevent it.  In either case, it is unfit
	to exist.

These are excerpts from Spooner's article "No Treason: The Constitution of No
Authority", available from Laissez Faire Books, 1-415-541-9780 in San Francisco.

	John E. Kreznar		| Relations among people to be by
	jkreznar@ininx.com	| mutual consent, or not at all.

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.3a

iQCVAgUBLcDuh8Dhz44ugybJAQG8lgQAlNkH0XGRMZbNvwYVOm0kPn6ECAMxPvf4
4Ue1llTfFtQEyLWC+NwpxPULDvVzkstFGngHhVfQtv1dWRFpKulL5NuuDoiY1xqp
4kU+8iT0NeRu/NEBck/Gh3MolNHrXCmhbHvCAx83UHk0aWDEZrxH6tpuqKXTn3tj
PWzSblyPAKw=
=+nMS
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----




