From: dfloyd@runner.utsa.edu (Douglas R. Floyd)
Date: Wed, 24 Aug 94 01:39:43 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: No Subject
Message-ID: <9408240841.AA27819@runner.utsa.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----


To whom it may concern:

In a previous mailing called "An Asshole using PGP" which does have a valid
message and my signature, he basically killfiles me in the worst manner
possible.

Before sentence is passed, and the sound of a thousand plonks is sent
in my direction, I would like to speak my part.

In an earlier mailing, Mr. May was mentioning how annoying it is to obtain
a PGP encrypted message, download it to their home machine, and then
find a message like "wow... pgp's kwl man.".  I composed the reply
that Tcmay so generously posted for everyone to marvel at.  I signed it,
but re-read it, and DID found it to be as one would put it "nitrogenous
cow waste."  I composed another reply in the same directory as the original,
which is irrelevent now because of this ad hominum attack.

To make a long story short, I mailed the wrong file.

If tcmay feels that I am such a low life that I am worthy of the plonk
sound, so be it.  I refuse to have judgement passed on me by the whole of
this list without speaking my part.  Tim May definitely has more clout than
I do, and the people on the list respect him, while I am less anarchistic,
more conservative about the way the government is.  (I do NOT like the
pressure of GAK and the Klinton Klown stuff though, let me make this
clear.)

Again, I am not asking for anything, but you not to killfile me for a
mistake, though stupid it may be.

I apologize to you, Mr. May, but I find it rude for you to take something
out of private mail, and onto this list.

Unless there is some major change in circumstances, consider this
the last mailing from me on this as I will NOT trouble this list,
and go on personal flamewars.  My mailing address is 
dfloyd@runner.jpl.utsa.edu, and if you have any problems, please take
this to me.  I will not have this mailing list, the only mailing list
I've really participated on polluted by petty ad hominum attacks.



-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.6

iQCVAgUBLlsHoXDkimqwdwa5AQFZSAP8CPzDk8g8HZcQ0KH1O33k2mNgABTGslPG
q2YSmuQqn6SKoNRt5VNVSlZJNrLcVbx4umo+1tw0xTSWJBQlHr57B8/+innhop3m
ErNK1Pais/xnkRU3Mw0D9ya+Oy+CLM7nwEhE/IYSxYAU9l7Nd3fKqLD13nZJij8w
diyNr7WVzI4=
=F2jA
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----



