From: Blanc Weber <blancw@microsoft.com>
Date: Fri, 15 Jul 94 14:09:48 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: ID card from hell
Message-ID: <9407152109.AA17098@netmail2.microsoft.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


From Duncan Frissell:

It is perfectly possible to have a rich full life even though you disobey
your nation state.  You need not even be an outcast any longer.  There are
*other* communities in which you can find full acceptance and support
*without* having to move.
.....................................................

But it isn't the acceptance of a small group which is the problem  - it 
is the effects of the macrocosm upon the minor element ("tribe", group, 
or just individual):

It is that you must live in their re-arrangements of reality more and 
more, and in the actual reality less and less;  one's own area of 
authority is constantly reduced, replaced by their overriding decisions.

First they nationalize your possessions, then your mind:  but it can 
also be done the other way:  while everyone is freely engaging in 
commercial transactions across national boundaries, in the background 
everyone is being corralled into a national identity scheme by which 
they can be made responsive to the "needs of the State" (legitimate law 
enforcement, etc.)  It's not so much the fact that everyone is 
identifiable individually for every place they go and everything they 
purchase, etc. which is so much the issue (at least for me);  it is 
that the connection to the Holy Leadership is always maintained, like a 
tether  -  you always know, psychologically, to whom you are attached 
and to whom therefore, you must surrender your money, your time, your 
identity card........

It's just continous war.  I appreciate the tips which Duncan provides, 
even if they're inconvenient and don't work for everyone.  There oughta 
be a FAQ for Hitchhikers on the Galaxy, on "How to Live Among Them".

Blanc





