From: Blanc Weber <blancw@microsoft.com>
Date: Mon, 14 Feb 94 13:49:12 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: RE: REAL WORLD ENCRYPTION
Message-ID: <9402142136.AA08132@netmail2.microsoft.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


* intend to use these tools, or is your interest only theoretical?

.  I would use the tools when these became essential; in my 
circumstance, not necessarily every day (not yet)
.  It also would depend on the tools; they presently appear unreliable, 
unstable

*how much you are willing to reorganize your life in order to take 
advantage of these techniques.

.  It wouldn't take much adjusting to go from the potential to the 
actual based on my inclinations, if the techniques are convincingly 
effective in serving to enhance the possibilities in the real world, 
without making it too difficult to continue to interact with it.  Is it 
secrecy alone which could accomplish this?  I would agreeable to 
experiment with prototypes in order to work on real solutions which are 
effective in making the separation from the present attachment to 
government-regulated toolboxes.

 *what factors would increase or decrease your use of cryptographic 
products and services.

.  depends on how desperate the situation has become (how socialist & coercive)
.  the kind of equipment required (what special items; what cost)
.  portability; mobility (can I use any phone anywhere; do I need to 
take a laptop with me or would there be an "ATM" type card to use; how, where)
.  ease of use (I don't write code, I don't know Unix; automated 
set-ups & procedures)
.  conflicts or difficulties in coordinating procedures with the rest 
of the world, or at least wherever I may be at the time

Concerns:

.  these are all dependent on electricity,
.  the electric/utility companies are not anarchist
.  power outages & access during those times
.  what problems would one face with the government from the use of 
such tools; how apparent could it become that one is using a system 
which operates within "their" territory, yet outside of their influence
.  what if they find out; do I call EFF

*creating a digital bank/open an account in a digital bank:

.  just how would digital money be translated (exchanged) into other 
currency when needed it,
.  so that it would be possible to do business with those who are not 
also using digital cash;  what sort of interactions between differing 
systems to expect, to deal with
.  who would 'man' the bank (if it matters)
.  where would it be located (do we need to know)
.  what if it's raining & cold outside (ha-ha)

Basically, regarding digital banks & currency, I'm interested in any 
alternatives to the present situation, but am not very knowledgeable of 
just how these procedures would work or be managed, so that a customer 
like myself would understand what they were doing (follow the 
reasoning) and be confident that they could manage their accounts; 
also, how the value of this kind of 'cash' is established (relative to what?).

Blanc





