From: jpinson@fcdarwin.org.ec
Date: Wed, 11 May 94 11:33:42 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Enhanced One-time pad available:
Message-ID: <9405111833.AA29771@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Greetings Cypherpunks.

After a lengthy test period, I am releasing the first official 
version of OTP-PC  (there is no change from the beta version).

The file otp-10.zip may be found on:

wuarchive.wustl.edu  /pub/MSDOS_UPLOADS/cryptography
(the same directory as Secdev)

I have also posted the file to the cypherpunks directory on
soda.berkeley.com.  Attempts to find out when/where otp will be
posted on soda have not been answered. (My cypherpunks mail has
stopped, so there may be a problem there)

If you problems finding otp-10.zip, please send me a 
message and I will send it to you via PGP ASCII-armor.

If any one can provide a FTP site for me to post OTP-PC, please 
let me know.

Description:
-------------
This is the first public release of OTP-PC, which is a MS-DOS
implementation of the one-time pad or Vernam Cipher.  The one-time pad
is the only encryption method proven to be unbreakable.

Complete source, of course!

                      OTP-PC features:

-Automatic compression of plain text messages prior to encryption.
 Compression reduces consumption of the pad, and masks the size of the
 original document. (compression can be overridden)

-Automatic wiping of the pad (codebook), to prevent reuse on both
 encryption and decryption.

-Wiping and deletion of intermediate compressed files.

-Two stage cipher text headers.  The first stage header is un-
 encrypted, and contains information needed to start decryption.   
 The second stage contains sensitive information (CRC etc), and is 
 encrypted.

-A 32 bit CRC stored in the encrypted header verifies reconstruction 
 of the original file.

-A verbose mode which displays encryption/decryption statistics.


Thanks,  Jim Pinson -Galapagos
         jpinson@fcdarwin.org.ec





