From: greg@ideath.goldenbear.com (Greg Broiles)
Date: Sun, 23 Jan 94 04:26:31 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Archiving mail-lists...
Message-ID: <64qLgc1w165w@ideath.goldenbear.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

Jim choate <uunet!wixer.bga.com!ravage> writes:

> [Mentions doing Usenet-on-CDROM, and potentially including mailing
> lists like C-punks in the archive copies.]

1.  I believe someone in Canada is already doing Usenet-on-CDROM,
minus alt.binaries.pictures.erotica (and perhaps some others).

2.  If the cost for your net connection is usage based instead of
flat-fee, a feed from PageSat might be cheaper. They've recently come out 
with new hardware that's a little cheaper than the old stuff. (The net 
connection would still be nice for mail, IP connectivity, blah blah.)

3.   You should at least think about how you will deal with copyright 
issues. I believe that the folks in Canada avoid redistributing a.b.p.e
to as to avoid legal hassles from the copyright holders for the pictures
posted there. Also, people posting original works have a copyright in
them; and they may not want their works included in your archive. 
(There's a thread about this in misc.legal.moderated.)

4.    Morally, I'm divided between thinking you should ask the owner of 
every message (its author) for permission to reprint; and thinking that 
doing so is too heavy a burden, and that the utility of the CD-ROM is 
more important than the harm done to the IP rights of the authors. I 
don't think you need the permission of people on the list who don't write
messages. I also don't think you need the permission of the "list owner", 
particularly where no creative control is exercised.


- --
Greg Broiles                   "Sometimes you're the windshield,
greg@goldenbear.com             sometimes you're the bug." -- Mark Knopfler


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.4

iQCVAgUBLUJlEH3YhjZY3fMNAQEixAP/c0edPyhWgHWkupEG9iPBsxZoedkAiwOz
RU2hOcYvKt0oL97WLBPFdUWilijhQYMKucVYrHJ7jT5vvgKbdJHvBF6UWnjy/tjs
C5TpWTFofZBLI1v+CMrpbKxf0BPPfB5tSA7A4GI4gh2PqxMc8odxNy/S6aa19SjX
Ebvei/OVUC8=
=2vbx
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----





