From: hfinney@shell.portal.com (Hal Finney)
Date: Wed, 10 Aug 94 21:44:40 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: RemailerNet
In-Reply-To: <199408110153.SAA15769@ucsd.edu>
Message-ID: <199408110444.VAA20478@jobe.shell.portal.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


lcottrell@popmail.ucsd.edu (Lance Cottrell) writes:

>Say I post a message through remailers to Cypherpunks giving one of these
>reply blocks. The TLA need only send a flood of known size messages to this
>address, and look to see where the pop out of the net of remailers. Even if
>all messages were quantized and only reconstructed by the final recipient, the
>TLA could send timed bursts of messages which (even with reordering) would 
>allow a statistical determination of the recipient.

>I think that the solution to this is some sort of hold and forward on demand
>system. An anon ID would be posted to Cypherpunks, and that account ID with
>a key, sent to the message holder. One would then request for a certain number
>of messages or number of kilobytes of messages to be sent to the address
>specified by the old sort of remailer block. This message would be signed by the
>key, and could indicate remailing to anywhere, even to another hold and forward
>location. This prevents the TLA from sending many messages to the final
>destination in such a way that they could be used for traffic analysis.

This problem has long been recognized with anonymous reply blocks.  Chaum,
in his original 1981 CACM paper, suggested that anonymous reply blocks
should be use-once in order to prevent variations on this attack.  Of course,
a use-once address is of limited usefulness.

A problem with the maildrop idea is that the wiretappers can presumably
follow the messages to the maildrop.  Then the only question is whether
they would be able to tell when your message came in and requested further
forwarding of the collected messages.  Maybe this could be done securely;
I'm not sure.

Other ideas have been proposed for this problem.  Chaum suggested
having a public area where messages for a group of people would arrive;
everyone downloads all of them but can only read the ones for them.
For  this you would want a "stealthy" encryption envelope which did not
give away any information about the recipient's ID.  Miron Cuperman has
been running such a "message pool" for over a year now.

One problem with anonymous return addresses is that the address changes
deterministicly as each layer is stripped off.  This allows the message
to be tracked by introducing copies with different bodies but the same
ARA (which is why Chaum specified use-once).  Eric Messick proposed a
system in which the message bodies would be changed at each step by the
remailers involved.  I don't recall the details, but I think that in order
to read the message the user had to send it back through those same re-
mailers after receiving it, to undo the transformations which had been
done on it.  It was a complicated scheme and we really didn't spend enough
time on it.

I don't think anyone really trusts (or should trust) the ARA's we can
make now with the remailer network.  An ARA is a sitting duck, a tempting
target for attacks.  With an ordinary remailed message, by the time it
arrives and someone is interested in tracking it, most of the needed infor-
mation is (ideally) gone.  With an ARA you are entrusting your deepest
secret, your True Name, to a few layers of encryption with other people's
keys.  That is not a good feeling.

I view easy-to-use, secure ARA's as an unsolved (and perhaps unsolvable)
problem.

Hal Finney
hfinney@shell.portal.com




