From: "Arthur R. McGee" <amcgee@netcom.com>
Date: Wed, 20 Apr 94 22:00:38 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Information_surety (fwd)
Message-ID: <Pine.3.85.9404202115.A17121-0100000@netcom10>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Now that the cold war is over, everyone seems to be branching out:

Subject: Information_surety

SAND No:  93-2873

Category:  Communications, Computers,  Information Theory

Subcategory:  Computer Security, Cryptography, Information  
security, Computer Reliability 


Title: Information surety

Summary:  Sandia National Laboratories has developed  
considerable expertise in all aspects of information  
surety, including the design and analysis of cryptographic  
systems, cryptographic key management  implementations of  
cryptographic algorithms and protocols, system   
reliability, system availability, authentication systems,  
biometric  identification devices, tamper resistant  
technologies, and computer  and network security.  Our  
unique strengths include our expertise in  providing high  
security and reliability for a complete system and in our  
highly experienced adversarial analysis team. We have now   
begun to apply these capabilities in information surety to  
new  problems of national importance.  


Potential Applications:

        - Private and secure computerized patient records
        - Secure home banking
        - Secure remote access
        - Private and secure electronic cash
        - Secure bank cards
        - Efficient Implementations of Cryptographic algorithms
        - Digital Signatures
        - Private communications
        - Cryptographic key management
        - Reliability and availability analysis of computing and 
          information systems 


Status:  Joint research projects are encouraged.  License  
available for efficient exponentiation and for probable  
secure digital signatures.

FOR MORE INFORMATION  
	E-mail address, TechTransfer@ccsmtp.sandia.gov
	Telephone:  Technology Transfer Center (505) 2-1--888

Location:  Sandia National Laboratories, Albuquerque, NM.


Expanded Description:
For the past 20 years, Sandia National Laboratories has had  
responsibility for information surety systems used in  
command and control of weapon systems and in the  
communications of weapon release messages.  To meet these  
responsibilities, we have developed considerable expertise  
in all aspects of information surety, including the design  
and analysis of cryptographic systems, cryptographic key  
management, implementations of cryptographic algorithms and  
protocols, system reliability, system availability,  
authentication systems, biometric identification devices,  
tamper resistant technologies, and computer and network  
security.  One of our unique strengths is our highly  
experienced adversarial analysis team.  Before a system is  
recommended for deployment, it has been thoroughly tested  
by this team, whose sole goal is to defeat the security  
features of the system.  Sandia has developed rigorous  
system design methodologies to meet high reliability and  
availability requirements.  Sandia scientists have won  
awards for their work on cryptoanalysis and  
resynchronization of encrypted channels. We have now begun  
to apply these capabilities in information surety to new  
problems of national importance.  


References:
IEEE article
AT&T Technical Journal article
fast exponentiation article
biometric identification article

Other Information Resources:  None

Related Categories and Subcategories:  Biometric  
identification, system reliability and availability

Key Words:
Cryptography, coding theory, error correcting codes,  
privacy, digital signatures, encryption, key management,  
nonrepudiation, biometrics, reliability, availability

-----------------------------
Art McGee [amcgee@netcom.com]
-----------------------------





