From: crawford@scruznet.com (Michael D. Crawford)
Date: Fri, 30 Dec 94 01:41:19 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: My "netcard"
Message-ID: <199412300941.BAA01313@scruz.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


I thought y'all would be tickled by the "e-card" I made up in preparation
for the MacWorld Expo.

I made a bunch of cards from Avery 5371 Laser Business Cards (about twelve
bucks for 250 cards, at most office supply stores).

On the front is a nifty logo, my name, and my e-mail address.  No phone or
snail address.  (I have a regular card for that, or I can write my number
on the e-card if I want the recipient to have it).

On the back is a headline "PGP Public Key Encryption Key", followed by
these instructions:

"Enter the key block exactly as shown.  Check carefully to ensure that it
is correct.  Then remove the spaces between the 8 character groups and add
to your public keyring."  (Suggestions for wording?  I don't have much
space...)

Following is my ASCII-armored public key, in courier font so it is
fixed-width and everything lines up nicely.  I added a space after every
eighth character.  Maybe I should use a narrower space and put it after
every fourth.  To save space (and user typing) I copied my key into a new
keyring and removed all the signatures from it before extracting it as
ASCII.  It is also in a just-readable 5-point size.

Finally, it says "For a fully-signed key, finger crawford@maxwell.ucsc.edu".

One might ask, "if they can finger, why give the key?"  The recipient might
not be on the Internet.  I don't think you can finger from AOL, and I'm
sure you can't from UUCP, AppleLink or CompuServe.  In any case, it will be
more convenient for the people I meet at the show to enter my key on their
laptops back at the hotel, without having to cruise the net looking for my
key.

I dig it.  It needs some sprucing up on the graphic design, but it seems
like it will be useful.

Regards,

Michael D. Crawford
crawford@scruznet.com     <- Please note change of address.
crawford@maxwell.ucsc.edu <- Finger me here for PGP Public Key.






