From: Grand Epopt Feotus <68954@brahms.udel.edu>
Date: Thu, 10 Mar 94 00:19:31 PST
To: "Timothy C. May" <tcmay@netcom.com>
Subject: Re: The Coming Police State
In-Reply-To: <199403100158.RAA27863@mail.netcom.com>
Message-ID: <Pine.3.89.9403100225.A21954-0100000@brahms.udel.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


	Mr. May's rant was very inspiring I must say.  Got me thinking on 
a few ideas here.  Myself bieng a rather unorganized person, I'll just 
present these ideas in a spontaneous order.

	The idea of cheap, anarchist, free, toasternets, which are under 
the control of those supporting anonimity, encryptian services etc. is 
something that interests me a great bit.  A system that can provide truly 
secure anon-remailers, because even the sysop deletes records and doesnt 
read them, is promising.  I myself am trying to start such a system with 
some of my freinds throughout the net.  Here are some ideas we are 
kicking around.
	First, we would need a IP connection, preferably one that is from 
a rather free, or non-questioning source.  We may have one set up in the 
future from a fellow ex-hacker(as if you can ever be a ex-hacker) turned 
businessman.  A connection that would bewilling to stand up to some 
pressure from authorities is desirable, otherwise as soon as you cause a 
stir, you may just find that your feed is costing a bit too much, or that 
you just cant seem to get the feed working properly etc...use your 
paranoia here.  So really a symp[athetic source is really desirable in 
this case, since we most likely will be playing in the realm of the 
grey-legal areas.
	My personal opinion is to operate such a crypto-net with a 
double-blind, so that we running it cannot know the true addres of the 
users, only enuff to bill them if so desired.  This way no records could 
be seized, and noone can be forced to reveal user names etc..  It would 
protect both the usrs, and suppliers.  If billing is needed, then someone 
would need to help set up a accounting system that relies simply on 
anon-numbers, and such.
	Also, perhaps providing very secure, well-encrypted, and veryvery 
private space on a system would be helpful.  maybe charging for a ten meg 
box that is fully encrypted with the users key, that only he can acces.  
Not even the system operators could read the contents.  Once agin this 
protects both parties.  And if somehow the telephony bill goes thru, lets 
pray it doesnt, than tap-proof storage would be a hot commodity for many 
people, but it would raise some serious legal questions for the suppliers.
	Now after a few of these nets are established, we could provide 
various other services. I think perhaps encrypted telnets between them, 
or automated chaining of remailers, etc..  Perhaps a large group of such 
crypto-nets could have a greater impact on the surveilance, s they could 
provide support for one another, as well as spreading the noise around a 
bit more.  I also think that once they are spr4ead we could work together 
to allow more and more people acces to local dial-ups that allow 
anonimity.  Meaning perhaps with much work we could coat the globe with 
the ability for people to have a completely anon account, still billed if 
desired, from any site.  This would be a great feat IMO, as I myself find 
it difficult at times to find dial-ups in places I visit, and a anon 
dial-up would be a greeat boon.  
	My personal philosophy that guides my actions is that as a 
service provider I do not need to know the name etc.. of the user, as 
long as I can bill him if needed.  There is no need for me to know wht he 
is doing, o where he is telnetting to etc.  With this in mind, I hope to 
be able to set-up a crypto-net, or as us romantic Sci-Fi fans call them, 
Data-haven 8)

	You're eqipped with a hundred billion nueron brain, that's
	wired and fired, and it's a reality generating device, but
	you've got too do it.  Free youself  ----Tim Leary----






