From: DRHilton@kaiwan.com (Dennis R. Hilton)
Date: Tue, 3 May 94 14:33:59 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: NII Summer Internship at the White House
Message-ID: <Apenjuti0bHV063yn@kaiwan.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Forwarded from another list:

	       SUMMER INTERNSHIP AT THE WHITE HOUSE

The Technology Division of the Office of Science and Technology
Policy in the Executive Office of the President has the intention
of hiring an intern this summer.  The Technology Division is the
part of OSTP that works on the National Information Infrastructure
Initiative.  We would like our intern to be qualified to help the
build the White House World Wide Web server, which is likely to be
open to the public in the fall.	 The position will pay between $3,800
and $4,700 for 90 days.	 The person selected will devote approximately
half of his or her time to the Web server and half to general office
duties such as answering telephones, making photocopies, and sorting
incoming paper mail.

Anyone may apply for this position by responding to Vacancy
Announcement Number OSTP-94-02-AR (Student Assistant GS-303-3/4/5).
Applications must be received no later than close of business Friday 6
May 1994.

How to Apply: Send your SF-171 form (Application for Federal Employment,
available at a public library or campus placement office) and a written
narrative summary of your experience and/or education on a separate
sheet, and a SF-15 (Application for 10-point Veteran Preference, if
applicable).

Where to apply: Office of Science and Technology Policy, Technology
Division Room 423, Executive Office of the President, Old Executive
Office Building, Washington, DC 20500.	You may send your completed
SF-171 by fax to 202- 456-6023.	 Applications must be *received* by
the closing date and will not be returned. Relocation Expenses will
*not* be paid to the applicant selected.  A security prescreen will
be conducted. The applicant tentatively selected for this position
may be required to submit to urinalysis to screen for illegal drug
use prior to appointment.  After appointment, the employee will be
included in the agency's random drug testing program.

Applications will be accepted from all qualified persons.
Consideration will be extended without discrimination for any
non-merit reasons such as race, color, religion, gender, national
origin, political affiliation, marital status, age, membership or
nonmembership in employee organizations, or nondisqualifying physical
handicap.

Selective factors: Experience operating a personal computer and using
word processing software; experience in locating and assembling
information for reports, briefings, or meetings.

Quality ranking factors: Ability to organize, follow procedures,
prioritize tasks and complete deadlines; knowledge of grammar,
punctuation, and spelling; ability to communicate effectively both
orally and in writing; ability to achieve cooperative working
relationships with all levels of staff.


Important additional information: If you want to show us what you can
do please send the URL to your Web home page in the subject line of
an e-mail message to interns@ostp.eop.gov.  Do not put any other
information in the subject line, just http://your.own.address.	No
phone calls or faxes please. Be creative with your home page. You are
not required to list telephone numbers or other information you would
not want to be publicly accessible.  Good luck!




