From: Stanton McCandlish <mech@eff.org>
Date: Mon, 21 Mar 94 16:25:15 PST
To: comp-org-eff-talk@cs.utexas.edu (eff.talk)
Subject: House hearings on Internet security TUESDAY 22 March, Wash. DC
Message-ID: <199403220024.TAA03102@eff.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


[cribbed from a pair of press releases]

House Subcommittee on Science Hearing on Internet Security
Chaired by Rep. Rick Boucher (D-VA)

March 22, 1994

9:30 a.m. - 2318 Rayburn House Office Building

The Subcommittee's interest in the issue arises in part because the
Internet is a prime method of communication between researchers in academia
and industry.  It is also a major means of communication for federal
researchers at agencies under the Subcommittee's jurisdiction.

Recent break-ins on the Internet prompted the federal Computer Emergency
Response Team to issue a special alert to Internet users on February 3, and
suggest that the system may be more vulnerable than generally acknowledged
to deliberate destruction or alteration of computer files.  The hearing
will evaluate the status of security on the Internet today and will
examine measures currently available to enhance security, assess the
effectiveness and degree of implementation of such measures, and identify
obstacles to enhancing Internet security.

Mail sstpress@hr.house.gov or fax 202-225-8280 for more info. For press
access, call Rick Borchelt at 202-225-3359


Tentative Witness List


Mr. L. Dain Gary, Manager
Computer Emergency Response Team Operations (CERT)
Carnegie Mellon University
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
(CERT is one of the coalition of response teams that form the
Forum of Incident Response and Security Teams, or FIRST)

Mr. Thomas T. Kubic
Chief, Financial Crimes Section
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Washington, DC

Dr. Vinton G. Cerf, President
Internet Society
Reston, Virginia
(Senior VP of Data Architecture, MCI)

Mr. Lynn McNulty
Associate Director for Computer Security
Computer Systems Laboratory
National Institute of Standards and Technology
Gaithersburg, Maryland
(NIST is the secretariat for FIRST)
 
Dr. Stephen D. Crocker, Vice President
Trusted Information Systems
Glenwood, Maryland
(Chair, Privacy and Security Research Group,
Internet Research Task Force)


-- 
Stanton McCandlish * mech@eff.org * Electronic Frontier Found. OnlineActivist
"In a Time/CNN poll of 1,000 Americans conducted last week by Yankelovich
Partners, two-thirds said it was more important to protect the privacy of
phone calls than to preserve the ability of police to conduct wiretaps.
When informed about the Clipper Chip, 80% said they opposed it."
- Philip Elmer-Dewitt, "Who Should Keep the Keys", TIME, Mar. 14 1994



