From: Critias_the_conspirator@au.informix.com
Date: Sat, 26 Nov 94 14:52:50 PST
Subject: Privacy Digest
Message-ID: <9411262253.AA00381@carbon.informix.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


I had thought that if Williams of Costa Rica was a sting, the stuff 
he sells would be better quality.  His advertising brochures look
like they were put together by a thirteen year old who speaks 
English as a second language.

On the other hand, his stuff may be truly representative of the
intellectual level of our opponents  --  (Consider Sternlight)

If this is the case then we have little to fear.


"Captain Bob" writes:
> Worse, at least one report does not exist - and that is the 
> one that would point to most government heat
> if you order it.  Just out of idle curiosity, 
> I had my foreign lawyer order so that was how I found out.

This incident is suggestive of a sting.  I presume this was
what "Captain Bob" intended to imply, though he did not state
the conclusion.  

> While I hate to say it, there is currently to my knowledge no easy turn-key
> one-stop-stop "Where to go to break the law" foreign operators that I would
> trust.  If you want true privacy, carve it out for yourself

Exactly so.

Many people around the world offer services that are convenient
if one wishes to prevent the government from learning about your
financial activities, but they do not advertise "Hey, come to us
to cheat taxes and evade controls" because if they did it would 
diminish their usefulness, both to those of their clients that 
are using them to avoid taxes, and to those of their clients who
use them for other purposes.

By the way, when one wishes to move money out of the country,
I recommend that the money spends a short time in some third
country that has numerous financial transactions with your home
country, friendly relationships with your home government, no 
privacy laws, and is not a tax haven.

Thus moving it to country X does not attract attention, and if
you then move it to country Y (the money laundering haven), country 
X does not care and your home country does not know.

"Wire $20 000 to account such and such in Canada" attracts
little attention.  "Give me 20 000 cash", or "wire 20 000
to the Cayman Islands" attracts much attention.

--

Critias_the_conspirator




