From: hughes@ah.com (Eric Hughes)
Date: Wed, 9 Feb 94 12:12:24 PST
To: cypherpunks-announce@toad.com
Subject: ANNOUNCE: February meeting--"True Names"
Message-ID: <9402091941.AA04783@ah.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


ANNOUNCEMENT
============

February 1994 Bay Area cypherpunks meeting

Saturday, February 12, 1994
12:00 noon - 6:00 p.m.
Cygnus Support Offices, Mt. View, CA, USA


  Our theme this month is "True Names", after the Vernon Vinge story.
We'll be talking about pseudonymity in virtual environments, whose
current implementations include MUD's, MOO's, Habitat, and various
other shared online environments.

  The schedule as of right now includes Chip Morningstar, co-author of
Habitat, speaking about that project and maybe what he's working on
currently.  I think some BayMOO folks are going to do something, but
that's not confirmed.  Other speakers will likely be added.  Plus the
usual mix of monthly progress reports and current events discussion.

  The March meeting theme is "Politics", a none-too-unusual topic,
except next month it's featured.  Start up the rhetoric-machines now;
we're going to have a soapbox session and possibly prizes for best
rant.

Eric

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
[Directions to Cygnus provided by John Gilmore. -- EH]

	Cygnus Support
	1937 Landings Drive
	Mt. View, CA  94043
	+1 415 903 1400   switchboard
	+1 415 903 1418   John Gilmore

Take US 101 toward Mt. View.  From San Francisco, it's about a
40-minute drive.  Get off at the Rengstorff Ave/Amphitheatre Parkway
exit.  If you were heading south on 101, you curve around to the
right, cross over the freeway, and get to a stoplight.  If you were
heading north on 101, you just come right off the exit to the
stoplight.  The light is the intersection of Amphitheatre and
Charleston Rd.  Take a right on Charleston; there's a right-turn-only
lane.

Follow Charleston for a short distance.  You'll pass the
Metaphor/Kaleida buildings on the right.  At a clump of palm trees and
a "Landmark Deli" sign, take a right into Landings Drive.  At the end
of the road, turn left into the complex with the big concrete
"Landmark" sign.  Follow the road past the deli til you are in front
of the clock tower that rises out of one of the buildings, facing you.
Enter through the doors immediately under the clock tower.  They'll be
open between noon and 1PM at least.  (See below if you're late.)

Once inside, take the stairs up, immediately to your right.  At the top
of the stairs, turn right past the treetops, and we'll be in 1937 on 
your left.  The door is marked "Cygnus".

If you are late and the door under the clock tower is locked, you can
walk to the deli (which will be around the building on your left, as
you face the door).  Go through the gate in the fence to the right of
the deli, and into the back lawns between the complex and the farm
behind it.  Walk forward and right around the buildings until you see
a satellite dish in the lawn.  Go up the stairs next to the dish,
which are the back stairs into the Cygnus office space.  We'll prop
the door (or you can bang on it if we forget).

Or, you can find the guard who's wandering around the complex, who
knows there's a meeting happening and will let you in.  They can be
beeped at 965 5250, though you'll have trouble finding a phone.

Don't forget to eat first, or bring food at noon!  I recommend hitting
the burrito place on Rengstorff (La Costen~a) at about 11:45.  To get
there, when you get off 101, take Rengstorff (toward the hills) rather
than Amphitheatre (toward the bay).  Follow it about ten blocks until
the major intersection at Middlefield Road.  La Costen~a is the store
on your left at the corner.  You can turn left into the narrow lane
behind the store, which leads to a parking lot, and enter by the front
door, which faces the intersection.  To get to the meeting from there,
just retrace your route on Rengstorff, go straight over the freeway,
and turn right at the stoplight onto Charleston; see above.

See you there!

	John Gilmore







