From: eric@remailer.net (Eric Hughes)
Date: Thu, 1 Dec 94 12:45:22 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: We are ALL guests (except Eric)
In-Reply-To: <199412012005.MAA29251@netcom4.netcom.com>
Message-ID: <199412012144.NAA13805@largo.remailer.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


   From: tcmay@netcom.com (Timothy C. May)

[re: reaction to marking]
   I won't do anything. I might not even notice it. I've never felt that
   this was important, though I also think it's pretty much useless (as
   it's so obvious who's at least making the appearance of signing).

I'm thinking of using something real obvious as a marker, similar in
spirit to what I posted the other day:

X-Advocacy: Eric Hughes wants YOU to sign your message.

I may actually use something very close to this, perhaps with the name
instead of the personal pronoun.  This header would be attached only
to message without recognized signature.

[re: reaction to delay]
   Delays of hours or more would affect my participation on the list.
   Bounces of course would. Those have been my concerns.

I have realized all along that bouncing messages would be extremely
disruptive; I apologize to the list if I made that less than clear.

As far as specific times, I think the cutover happens somewhere
between two and four hours.  If delays get used, you can be sure
they'll start small and rise slowly.


   My issue is with the
   views that are long the lines of "It's Eric's list, and if he says we
   can only write about Croatian youth hostels, well, hey, it's _his_ list!"

I am also far less than persuaded by such arguments.


   I don't feel slighted, not that that would matter.

Well, it would matter to me.  But then again, I'd first try to
acknowledge any such feelings, and then I'd tell you fuck off if you
couldn't deal with reality.  But Hey! that just me, I suppose.

   I'd feel just about as strange (I hope) if people were saying "Look,
   Tim's the boss. He's the Big Kahuna. If you don't like his policies on
   his list, leave."

"This is one _tasty_ burger"

   Clearer?

Yes, clearer.  Fortunately for me, I was locally famous in high school
in (drum roll) competitive classics.  I experienced some of exactly
the kind of subservience accorded to famous people.  I developed a
distaste for it then, which has not left.  I have some understanding
of the loneliness of celebrity.  When a sycophant doesn't treat you
like a peer, there's little point in trying to even out the
relationship.  It's almost always doomed.

Here are Eric's two sentence advice on celebrity.  If you want to know
famous people, don't treat them differently than others.  If they
therefore ignore you, leave.

Eric




