From: cort@ecn.purdue.edu (cort)
Date: Thu, 24 Feb 94 17:01:16 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: No Subject
Message-ID: <9402250101.AA05179@en.ecn.purdue.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


              Kinda-Fair-Secret Message Passing
                           -OR-
                  Self-Decrypting Messages


I have an IDEA.  It may have already been thought of....

Problem:
  - PGP is great, but like so many infant technologies,
    encryption programs are not quite "turnkey".
  - Many people do not have PGP installed.  I want to send
    messages to some of these people.  (Oh, I know, a true
    geek doesn't bother to communicate with PlaintextPunks!)

Solution:
  - Securely encrypted messages with programmable "key
    question" and "response key" for self-decryption.

Scenario:
  Fred wants to send a message to Ida.  Fred is a cypherpunk
  and is quite proficient with PGP.  However, Ida is not
  set up with PGP and does not desire to learn PK cryptography.
  Fred and Ida know each other (or something about each other).

  Fred sends a self-decrypting message to Ida in an executable
  file.  Ida simply receives the file and executes it.  (This
  is analogous to self-extracting zip files.)

  When the file is executed, it will ask Ida a question that Fred
  has set up (with her in mind).  This question will ideally be
  answerable only by Ida.  If Ida answers correctly, her response
  will form a key to decrypt the message.

I have thought a bit about the implementation.  It seems that
it may be pretty simple to do using PGP Tools.  The passphrase
recognition could use a one-way function (MD5?).  IDEA could
be the encryption algorithm.  RSA is not needed.

The tricky part is providing an executable file while providing
a little bit of instruction at the front of this file (to instruct
the recipient to down-load and execute).

Also, it seems that an assumption of recipient platform (e.g. DOS,
Unix, etc.) may be necessary.  Uuencoding or similar ASCII/binary
conversion may be required.

Comments?  Would someone do this?  Does it already exist?

It would be a nice augmentation to the PGP package!

Cort.
-- 
cort@cc.purdue.edu




