From: snyderra@dunx1.ocs.drexel.edu (Bob Snyder)
Date: Thu, 4 Aug 94 08:30:39 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: broadcast encryption
Message-ID: <aa66a05403021023b24d@DialupEudora>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


At 3:37 PM 8/3/94, Brian Lane wrote:

>and my Linux system. Maybe they'll changes the rules if enough 'new' hams
>could get together. I say 'new' because there are alot of old hams who
>like things the way they are - they even fought the change in rules that
>allow no-code users to get a license without having to take morse code(a
>waste of time in my opinion).

This may be blasphomey on this list, but I don't have a problem with the
restriction on obscuring the meaning of transmissions on the amateur bands.
My reading of the rules (and I'd probably double-check with the
appropriate persons at the American Radio Relay League before doing so) is
that cryptology that doesn't obscure the message, like digital signature,
is permitted.  After all, the encrypted portion of the message is easily
computed or decoded, so its meaning would not be obscured; it just couldn't
be generated by anyone else.

This could be a solution to a problem I've always had with the digital
amateur radio operations:  the ease with which someone could be spoof.
It's very easy to configure your system to transmit with the callsign of
another, or even with a non-existant callsign.  This is possible with wired
networks as well, but requires access to the machines or cables on the
network.  With wireless, you can do it from anywhere, and as long as you
keep connections short, not get tracked down.  With digital signatures, it
is possible to authenticate every message, or even better, every packet,
and ignore unsigned message/packets.

Getting a ham radio license (within the US) is fairly simple.  You take a
test the questions come from a pool which is public knowledge, pay the
volunteer examiners ~$5 to cover the cost of the test(s), and wait for the
FCC to send you your 10 year license.  No fee for the license itself, and
no renewal fee.

Given the public nature of amateur traffic, I don't see a problem with the
restrictions.  There is no such thing as "private communications" on the
ham bands.  Never has been.  If you want such privacy, use one of the
commercial bands where it's allowed.

Bob

--
Bob Snyder N2KGO                                     MIME, RIPEM mail accepted
snyderra@dunx1.ocs.drexel.edu                       finger for RIPEM public key
         When cryptography is outlawed, bayl bhgynjf jvyy unir cevinpl.






