From: an48138@anon.penet.fi (Xenon)
Date: Thu, 27 Jan 94 18:37:47 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Remailers needed NOW. Help.
Message-ID: <9401280212.AA05760@anon.penet.fi>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Dear Cypherpunk-remailer operators:

I need an immediate answer, so I thank you now. I am sending the PGP FAQ by
Gary Edstrom and my "Here's How to MacPGP Guide!" to anyone who sends me
mail with subject "Bomb me!". It is very easy for me to do this, one
keystroke in fact. I am averaging 6-12 requests a day, and expect this to
top 40-50 if I start advertising in other Usenet groups. As each piece in
the 5-part package is about 20-45K, it turns out that I am pushing 1-2MB of
mail through anon.penet.fi a day.

Guess what?

Julf sent me a e-letter today asking what's up. My return letter and offer
of support of his remailer may appease him, or it may not (if his remailer
just can't take it).

I am currently being forwarded the messages from the Cypherpunks mailing
list and I have noticed that YOUR remailers need more volume! I offer to
switch from anon.penet.fi, and divide my five-part package (20-45K per
part) among five or less of your remailers. This will amount to 250-500K
per remailer a day, and may reach twice that if I advertise the service
better. They will arrive about 5 seconds apart, in volumes of 3-6 per
session, perhaps 2-3 times a day.

I need to know RIGHT NOW, which remailers can handle this, and will remain
STABLE. I worry that if one fails, I will not receive notice of this like
anon.penet.fi gives, or the situation will become a nightmare for whatever
reason. I am not using encryption, an CANNOT do so since it would require
me to re-encrypt it for EACH new address. I am NOT willing to do this.

I will receive your answer faster if posted to the list, and I think the
answer will be of interest to many (which remailers can handle volume and
are the most stable...).

I would like to use the normal header and I need to know EXACTLY how to
format this (one space, "::", "Request-Remailing-To: address", one space,
and message?). I also need an idea of the time-lag involved in each
remailer. Anon.penet.fi adds from 1 hour to 2 days lag time, but is very
reliable. I do not wish to chain my remailing, but I COULD do this in a
fixed way if you wanted me to. I have a SIMPLE file containing five single-
line Unix commands which contain ONE csh environment variable which I
assign to the person's e-mail address. I am executing this remotely using
rsh. I don't know Unix well enough to do much more than this!

Thank-you. Looks like I'm interested in your remailers after all :-).

-Xenon
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
To find out more about the anon service, send mail to help@anon.penet.fi.
Due to the double-blind, any mail replies to this message will be anonymized,
and an anonymous id will be allocated automatically. You have been warned.
Please report any problems, inappropriate use etc. to admin@anon.penet.fi.




