From: rishab@dxm.ernet.in
Date: Sun, 21 Aug 94 13:56:28 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Governing an information society - 1/4
Message-ID: <gate.gq4FRc1w165w@dxm.ernet.in>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Jason W Solinsky <solman@MIT.EDU>:
> > .  What is to be done about non-conformists to the rules
> >    (without contradicting the rules?)
> 
> They are fined. If this doesn't work their communication priveliges are
> curtailed and if this doesn't work they are banished. As I have noted
> before, in an information economy this is an extreme punishment.

Yes, I can imagine heated debates on the moralities of such cyberspatial
death penalties.

I like to believe that the Internet model of society and indeed 'government'
will eventually be adopted in the mainstream. What does one really need
a 'government' for? A central source of power, Max Weber's monopoly of
legitimate violence, is surely not the only method of ensuring a degree of
fairness and order in society. Especially not in one based primarily on
knowledge - or information.

What do real world governments do? Broadly, two things. 'Social upliftment' - 
welfare and development programmes; and 'law enforcement' - ensuring that
people stick to what they've agreed upon (idealized: in theory citizens have
agreed to the social contract present in the constitution and laws).

There is no specific evidence to show that the task of social upliftment is
best performed by those with the weapons to enforce laws. Indeed, where
welfare is _really_ needed (and I'm not talking about a Swede on unemployment
benefits) much of it comes even today from independent organizations. 
Bangladesh, for instance, has what is almost a parallel government of several
hundred local and international agencies that run numerous development 
projects, funded largely by private monies. Grameen Bank, a cooperative
started on the premise that poor village women need small ($100) loans but
invariably pay back, has a minute loan failure rate and makes a decent profit,
unlike numerous government projects the world over. Development, the primary
justification for taxation, is probably better accomplished by people outside
the government, who are likely to be more efficient and dedicated. And if they
manage with private donations now, they are sure to flourish when there is
no compulsory taxation. Most cultures encourage generousity and most people 
would be willing to invest small parts of their income in organizations that
do social work, where they could have far more control as investors than they 
do currently as taxpayers.

Continued...

Rishab

ps. food for thought: there are seven countries on this planet that allow
the death penalty for crimes committed by minors: Libya, Sudan, Iraq, Iran,
Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and the United States of America.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Rishab Aiyer Ghosh             "Clean the air! clean the sky! wash the wind!
rishab@dxm.ernet.in                   take stone from stone and wash them..."
Voice/Fax/Data +91 11 6853410  
Voicemail +91 11 3760335                 H 34C Saket, New Delhi 110017, INDIA  




