From: Aron Freed <s009amf@discover.wright.edu>
Date: Sun, 27 Nov 94 13:11:17 PST
To: CypherPunks MailingList <cypherpunks@toad.com>
Subject: A possible solution
Message-ID: <Pine.SUN.3.91.941127155744.2824A-100000@discover>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



I was sitting down and thinking about the problem of responsibily of 
using non-escrowed public key cryptography. Well here is a possible 
answer. Law enforcement agents have several different methods of 
finding out about crimes that might happen. And this means they wouldn't 
be allowed to tap phone lines or use key-escrowed systems like Clipper. 
Then people who do use non-escrowed public key cryptography for illegal 
actions would have problems. If they are caught by other means such as 
tips from anonymous sources and are then caught doing something illegal 
and they are also using non-escrowed public key cryptography to commit these
illegal acts, then the fines and jail time should be increased. This 
reasoning is based on the fact that we need to be more responsible with 
technology. Therefore, the government would allow us to go on about our 
business using non-escrowed key systems, but if misused by the public 
there would be harsher punishments to the misusing individual. There are 
plenty of informants out there who can help the law enforcement agencies. 
We use public key crypt such as PGP. They won't be able to read it, but 
if there is misuse and the peron is convicted of a crime and is using PGP 
or some other non-escrowed system to commit the crimes he was convicted 
of, it's more trouble for him. TO me this is the best solution and it's 
the only thing I would allow. The government cannot be allowed to tap our 
phone lines the way they would like to using CLipper or SKE or some other 
type of system. We need to keep our rights but we need to still make it 
known that PGP is not meant for corruption and illegal use. IT's meant 
for private conversation in it due time.
 
I need feedback desperately on this idea. I am incorporating this idea 
into a two page paper called Dealing with Technology in the Future. I 
want this to be part of the solution. But I would like to know what 
others feel about this idea.

Aaron
513-276-3817 voice
s009amf@discover.wright.edu 
Big Government Sucks!!!





