From: hughes@ah.com (Eric Hughes)
Date: Mon, 8 Aug 94 21:39:20 PDT
To: cypherpunks-announce@toad.com
Subject: ANNOUNCE: the TAZONO is here
Message-ID: <9408090403.AA20990@ah.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


I'm flying to New York this week to go to the HOPE conference put on
by 2600, so I've arranged to throw a party.  Here's the announcement.
HOPE is the two days after this, so if you're planning on that, come a
day earlier.

You're all invited, but I only expect those in range of New York to
actually attend.  And I would like to meet all the NYC cypherpunks, or
at least as many as I can.  

So show!

Eric
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

		       The Blazin' Cypherpunks

			       present
				  a


			     T.A.Z.O.N.O.

		      Temporary Autonomous Zone
			    One Night Only

	      (perhaps also to be known as just a party)

		       Friday, August 12, 1994
		     8:00 p.m. EDT until whenever
		almost in New York City, but not quite

			  with the theme of

		      Bring Your Own Everything
				 (or)
	       The Creation of Anarchy out of a Cipher


Eric Hughes, cypherpunks founder, and Matt Blaze, swIPe'r of Tesserae
security, are throwing a party, and Eric, who lives somewhere other
than the East Coast, will be in town for it.  We've managed to
liberate, through completely legal means, an almost completely empty
apartment for the purposes of joy and frivolity and much talking.

Join us!

Special Event: Midnight Impromptu Two-Minute Rant Contest.  A suitable
theme will be chosen by shout-outs, and judging will progress by
catcall and heckling volume.  Real Prizes!

Given the manner of acquisition of space, there will be nothing there
when the party starts.  It's Bring Your Own Everything.  We need
all of the following:

	Your Friends and other Diverse People
	Furniture (street discards accepted, as long as _you'd_ use it)
	Music (live and recorded)
	Drink (as always)
	an Internet connection
	Food (whatever you like to eat)
	a Gong
	Stimulants (my favorite being Neitzsche)
	as many copies of the game Twister as we can get
	Pillows and Cushions
	a Roll of Butcher Paper
	a Constitutional Amendmend Guaranteeing Freedom of
		Cryptography and Anonymity

Special Prize for the "Most Creative Use of Scavenged Material in
Furtherance of the Ludic Atmosphere of the TAZONO."

So, uh, where is it?  It's in Jersey City, at an address we're not
going to tell you just here.  We just thought it best not to post the
address to the world.  But we'll give you a clue; it's near the
Pavonia-Newport Path Train station.  In fact, if you just show up
there, there may be more clues.  And I'll send you the address if you
send me, Eric Hughes, email at the address hughes@ah.com.  You can
also call me at 510-849-4729 (I'm in the phone book, so this is no big
deal).

Rules of Invitation: If you see this, you're invited.  It's the day
before 2600's HOPE, so any of you that are in town the night before
can stop by.  Please print out copies and get them to your
non-Internet friends who'd be interested.  Please feel free too
forward this by private email as well.

THE SECRET WORD IS "PLUGH".  REMEMBER THE SECRET WORD.







