From: Jef Poskanzer <jef@ee.lbl.gov>
Date: Thu, 3 Mar 94 09:10:41 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Standard for Stenography?
Message-ID: <9403031710.AA14345@hot.ee.lbl.gov>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


>I think it is great that Jef is working on a steganography implementation,
>but IMO the notion of "random offsets" is so fundamentally misguided that I
>hope he will reconsider.

I already did - the offsets idea was my second thought, permutation
is third.

I'm a big fan of the rigidly separated software tools approach.  Just
look at the pbmplus tookkit.  But I also think it's perfectly ok to
combine functions when there's a good enough reason.  I think this is
such a case.  The problem is the length field - you've got to have it,
and it's recognizable because it begins with a run of 0s.  So the stego
program should hide it.  Mac Stego hides it by XORing with the
2nd-to-lsb of the following 32 bytes - that's a hack, and it won't slow
an attacker down for a microsecond.  jsteg, if I remember right, does
some variable field width encoding - better, but it also remains
recognizable to some extent.  My solution is to store the file's bits
in a specified pseudorandom permutation of the image's available bit
positions.  It's kind of like the frequency hopping of spread spectrum
radio.  This hides the length field very thoroughly.  It also happens
to hide anything else recognizable about the original file.  Yes, you
should use Stealth PGP for complete security, and my man page will tell
you this.  However, even with regular PGP the permutation will give you
good security against casual attacks, perhaps even commercial attacks.

Now, if you can think of a natural, simple interface for a standalone
file permutation generator, I'll be happy to separate that part out,
and make pnmstego just read bits and stick them in the image in order.
The problem with separating it is the bits you want to leave alone.
Either the file permutation generator has to generate *trinary* output,
which seems gross, or the stego pipeline will have to include an
initial DEstego step to extract the unmodified bits from the image.
Either of those possibilities is more complicated than just building
the permuter into pnmstego.
---
Jef




