From: Peterwheat@aol.com
Date: Wed, 6 Jul 94 15:22:36 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Detwiler's Crypto Mailing List
Message-ID: <9407041805.tn335555@aol.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


I found this by doing a keyword search (cryptography) in America Online's
database of mailing lists.  I thought it might be of interest to the
cypherpunks mailing list:

CYPHERWONKS: The Development of Cyberspace

List Title: CYPHERWONKS: The Development of Cyberspace
List Owner or Contact: L. Detwiler, LD231782@longs.lance.colostate.edu

To subscribe to this list, send e-mail to Majordomo@lists.eunet.fi; in the
body of the message, type SUBSCRIBE CYPHERWONKS.

To unsubscribe from this list, send e-mail to Majordomo@lists.eunet.fi; in
the body of the message, type UNSUBSCRIBE CYPHERWONKS.

Send all other list-related commands to Majordomo@lists.eunet.fi. For
assistance, send the command HELP.

Send all articles to CYPHERWONKS@lists.eunet.fi.

Keywords: cyberspace, technology

Description:
The brand new cypherwonks list on Majordomo@lists.eunet.fi is for ambitious,
energetic, can-do, hands-on individuals interested in general cutting-edge
`cyberspatial development' projects such as in cryptography, digital cash,
and `electronic democracy'. (A `wonk' is slang for a `meticulous detail
person'.) The list is both an informal gathering place for the technically
adept and also a focal point for branching off into serious project
coordination. We place a premium on membership by technical professionals and
try to hone our posts to accommodate the busy (who, according to the adage,
are those who get all the serious work done). We are inspired by the Internet
but don't see it as ideal yet and are particularly interested in cooperation,
building prototypes, forging standards, and `long-term incremental evolution'
in our designs and goals. We're also intensely interested in following and
influencing the technological and political developments of the emerging
`national cyberspatial infrastructure.'

The list is not for political diatribes in the `radical libertarian' agenda,
e.g. rants against all forms of government as oppressive, corrupt, or evil,
or promoting the use of cryptographic technologies for subversive activities
like tax evasion, black marketeering, or evading law enforcement. The list is
not for discussions of how to manipulate the honest through the use of
software technologies. The list is not for unconstructive negativism against
other's proposals.  Above all, we are interested in forging a `civilized
cyberspace' out of the current `Internet wilderness'.

Historical note: the list was formed as a less ornery, more moderate splinter
group from the Cypherpunks by J.Helsingius (creator of the popular
anon.penet.fi anonymizing service) and L.Detweiler (author of many FAQs
including `Privacy & Anonymity on the Internet).



Transmitted:  94-06-28 09:51:08 EDT





