From: gtoal@an-teallach.com (Graham Toal)
Date: Wed, 27 Jul 94 11:50:44 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: XSPLIT now own ftp.wimsey.bc.ca
Message-ID: <199407271849.TAA05734@an-teallach.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


: > How about doing this with n of m?  Anyone have code?

: What do you mean?  The sources are included with XSPLIT.  The algorithm is
: very very simple.

: What exactly did you mean by n of m?  Since at each byte the numbers are picked 

He means an n-of-m error correcting code applied to secret sharing.

Take a Hamming code for example.  I used to use a 4-bit one when I
worked in teletext.  4 bit nibbles were encoded as 8 bit words.  You
could corrupt 2 bits and recover the 4 bits correctly, thus it was 
a 2-in-4 error-correcting code.  I think it was also a 3-in-4
error *detecting* code, because if three of the eight bits were
in error, you could know there was an error but not reliably
correct it.

Thus you can take a stream of data, split it up into 4 bits, and
hamming encode each nibble.  Then you give 1 bit from each output
byte to a different person.  The original file can be rebuilt if
6 of the 8 people get together - effectively you're decoding each
8-bit byte by assuming that the bits from the two missing people
were corrupted in transit (ie any value you supply will do)

Error-correcting codes are well understood (though not necessarily
by me ;-) ) and can be tailored to any n of m, eg you could have a
code that took 24-bit units, made a 100-bit output word, and could
rebuild the original 24-bit word by having access to only say 70 of
the 100 bits.

The application of this to secret sharing is obvious.

What isn't so obvious is that since these codes are designed for
data transmission rather than data hiding, you're liable to
find that for some bit positions in the output word, you have
a direct copy of one of the input bits!  So in my first example
above where 4 bits mapped to 8 bits, 4 of the 8 bits of output
were actually just the four input bits even though the other
4 bits were in some way random 'check bits'.

So just by finding the right 4 people and analysing the data
you'd get if you took their bits as actual data, you could
tell whether you'd found the cleartext bits or not.

Thus a straight Hamming code can't be used to split secrets; I'm
not sure of the modifications necessary - I *think* it might be
enough to whiten the input data with random noise, but I'm far
far less than 100% convinced of this.  I'll have to think about
it some other time when I don't have as much on my mind.

I expect some textbook has already covered the application of
these things to cryptography.  Wish I had one :-(

G




