From: Blanc Weber <blancw@microsoft.com>
Date: Wed, 20 Jul 94 19:28:36 PDT
To: frissell@panix.com
Subject: Re: Leaving the Country
Message-ID: <9407210229.AA15334@netmail2.microsoft.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


From Duncan:

It is not a matter of tax planning but a matter of psychology.  They 
have convinced you to manage your own oppression because it is cheaper 
and easier if you do it than if they do it.. . . . .

It is possible to reprogram yourself to disobedience. . . .
..................................................

For those who have seen the light of reason, there is still the problem 
of living with the methods used to enforce complicity to the prevalent 
political policy.  Disobedience by itself may psychologically help the 
individual who imagines themselves to be free, but the disadvantage of 
a government administrative clerk's preemption over your own decisions remains.

There is still the need to keep what is one's own, even when there is 
no recognition for the sanctity of the self or of personal property.   
This problem of efficacy in the face of human forces which are moved by 
values contrary to one's own, is what I think of when I imagine what it 
takes to "live among them", considering that there is no longer a place 
to form a new, improved country.

There are some circumstances at a company I know of (!) where they have 
found ways of establishing a "win-win" situation with clients.  It is a 
controversial way of arriving at arrangements which are acceptable to 
all parties  -  I wonder what sort of compromises go on at meetings 
where eventually everyone comes out smiling.   But it is the sort of 
calculating in interpersonal, entrepreneural, and political 
juxtapositions which sometimes appear to be the only way to make 
headway in difficult butt-heading circumstances.

I'm not an advocate of compromising, but I do think that there is much 
material for personal advantage in the study of psychology & cognition, 
as it relates to understanding what one is up against.  The question 
remains, how to navigate in spite of some of these things.

The more that one can live openly in correspondence with the way things 
really, really work,
the better it is for the minds which must live with the actual.  I do 
think an anarcho-capitalist would rather live/work with the actual, 
rather than shrink from it or excuse themselves from the fray (even 
while trying to avoid the obstacles).  Judiciously.

Blanc





