From: dwomack@runner.utsa.edu (David L Womack)
Date: Sun, 24 Apr 94 18:45:58 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: warrentless searches
Message-ID: <9404250145.AA12818@runner.utsa.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Adam appears to be of the opinion that we are
a democracy...technically, we are a representative
republic.  A minor quibble, perhaps, but it leads
to larger issues.

The entire purpose of the structure of our
government (seperation of powers, varied
election schedules, powers reserved to the
states, the bill of rights and so forth) is
to prevent the suppression of the rights of
a minority by the majority.  At least, that
is the ideal!  Guarantees of freedom are not 
required for popular positions.  Is freedom of
the press required for journals extolling the 
"lovely weather here in our most perfect of all
possible worlds!"?  Hardly.  Such things could
be safely written in the most authoritarian society.

The majority of the people in the projects wants
warrantless searches....it seems so very reasonable
to say, ok, the gangs are out of control, the majority
wants these searches, lets just go ahead!  But, remember,
you still have a minority of people who *_don't_* want
these searches and seizures.  Are we, in the name of
expediency, to abandon the rights of this minority?  A
minority neither of race nor of money, but of opinion?

If the majority of people decide that ownership of
firearms is counter to the interests of society,
will we take away this option?  If the majority
feels that safety will be enhanced, are we to be
required to carry "papers" everywhere?  This is a
slippery path...if the same majority decides that 
decent people don't need privacy, then the days of
the Clipper debates will remind us of what we have
lost.  Let's really bring this home...if society decides
that "old people", say those over 75, cost too much to
keep alive, will we let the same majority invoke
forced euthanasia?  Why not, the *_majority_* is all
for it!

No Adam, I'm not accusing you of anything, save the
most terrible action of all...the willing subordination
of liberty for an elusive safety that probably won't come
anyway.  Keep in mind that there are antisocial acts even
in totalitarian states.  And, if the North Koreas of the
world have less gang violence...are we ready for such a
trade?  Again, the elimination of hard won freedoms is
a terrible price.  I predict that within a decade we will
all regret the first step we take toward abolishing the
rights our founders willingly gave their all to win.   

regards....



