From: remail@tamsun.tamu.edu
Date: Mon, 10 Jan 94 14:41:36 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Filing Income Taxes Electronically
Message-ID: <9401102237.AA10870@tamsun.tamu.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Forwarded from alt.internet.services:

I've been involved with electronic tax filing (EFT) for
six years now. I develope and sell a tax filing package
which allows you to basically enter the data from a completed
return and transfer directly to the IRS or to one of our
transmission sites. This is a tax filing not a tax prep
program. Our main market is tax preparers who buy the program
and transmitt direct to the IRS, tax preparers who register
with us and transmitt returns to us to transmitt to the IRS
and tax preparers who fax us returns and we enter the data
and transmitt.

As for specifics, yes you need a bell 208 modem to send
directly to the IRS. The IRS has several transmission sites
all over the country which processes everybody`s returns.
And they have a set schedule of when a refund is sent.

Basically returns are processed every Tuesday night. What
this means is that if your return has been sent and passed
the IRS acceptanced tests by Monday night the IRS will
process it Tuesday and if you do direct deposit it will be in
your bank account in 10 days, if you have it mailed it will be 
mailed in 12 days. So if you do file electronicaly DO NOT get
a Refund Anticipated Loan (RAL) unless your electricity is already
off :-). A RAL will get you your money in 3 to 5 days at pre-fixed
fee which averages to be about a 150% loan interest rate for a
at most 7 day loan.

If your interested in doing EFT from your home IBM or clone let me know.
We also work with non tax preparers who have registered with the
IRS to do electronic filing and have a electronic filing indentification
number (EFIN). The IRS can give you these rather quickly, they do a 
background check to see if you do not owe back taxes or have been
convicted of any felonies and if that works you get a EFIN. Once you
have an EFIN we can work with you to set you up for EFT. Basically
if you transmitt to us we give you the software and charge you per return.
What you do is find your clients ( and they are your clients you must
see then personally and have them sign a EFT form which gets sent with
their W2s to the IRS by you ) enter there returns with our software
and send to one of our transmission sites.

If interested or any other questions relating to EFT let me know.

Dave Hotlosz
no sig never had one never needed one, which means I`ll have to get one






-------------------------------------------------------------------------
To find out more about this anonymous remail service, send mail to 
remail@tamsun.tamu.edu with the word "remail help" as the only words in the 
subject field.




