From: an48138@anon.penet.fi (Xenon)
Date: Thu, 27 Jan 94 21:57:47 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Five remailers needed NOW. Yo.
Message-ID: <9401280535.AA07382@anon.penet.fi>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



I have played with the Cypherpunk remailers and it turns out it would be
very EASY for me to chain my remailing of the five 20-45K messages that
I am sending to anyone sending mail to na38138@anon.penet.fi with subject
"Bomb me!". But it would NOT be easy for me to randomly chain them, two
mailers at a time. I don't know perl. I only discovered that if I put
long Unix command lines into a file and chmod u+x on it, I can use rsh
to remotely execute those commands and pass an environment variable
containing the person's address at the same time. I do not want to fully
automate it, as one keystoke after highlighting the person's address is
easy enough.

But I still ask, which five or less remailers should I use. I want fast and
very reliable sites, to avoid people receiving a partial mailing and sending
me back complaining about it. This would become regular and confusing if the
delay between the parts was great. I could add a header explaining this to
them though.

If you care enough, you could mail me a script that would output ten randomly
seleted remailer addresses and I could use those variables in my mailer
command file. Then I would be sending to five random sites and these would
chain to a second random site and be sent to their final destination.

Again, I am not very interested in using encryption, period.

Thanks.

-Xenon
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
To find out more about the anon service, send mail to help@anon.penet.fi.
Due to the double-blind, any mail replies to this message will be anonymized,
and an anonymous id will be allocated automatically. You have been warned.
Please report any problems, inappropriate use etc. to admin@anon.penet.fi.




