From: tcmay@netcom.com (Timothy C. May)
Date: Tue, 13 Dec 94 00:44:34 PST
To: pfinerty@seattleu.edu (being)
Subject: Re: dr. dobbs - where?
In-Reply-To: <Pine.SUN.3.91.941212235326.25883A-100000@bach.seattleu.edu>
Message-ID: <199412130844.AAA10371@netcom18.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


being wrote:

> i'd like to know where i can find dr. dobbs.  i came up with a lot of stuff
> (52 hits actually) using gopher but i'd prefer some sort of mailing list or
> even better, a WWW page for it.  of course, if there is a std ftp site i'd go
> for that as well.  basically, i'm easy to please.  i just want to read the
> crypto articles mention by bruce.
 
i wondered the same thing for a long time, looking with archie for
this item, and another, something called "scientfic american" that
gets quoted a lot (but isn't a scientific american an oxymoron? I
guess not)

i finally found this dr. dobbs in a place called a bookstore...imagine
that. it seems that dr. dobbs is a magazine, a relic printed on either
papyrus or paper, i'm not sure which.

it used to be called "dr. dobbs journal of computer orthodentia:
running light without overbyte" (or words to that effect)). the
immmortal jim warren, who has attended at least two cypherpunks
meetings and who founded various important computer trade shows (which
he sold to others, thus ensuring his life of retirement), founded this
"magazine" in the mid-70s, which explains why it uses such an archaic
format as papyrus (or is it paper?).

seriously, byte, dr. dobbs, scientific american, and the economist are
available only in paper form, but are nonetheless vastly more useful
than nearly anything on the net.

this is especially true, of course, of the crypto literature, where
vast amounts of goodness are confined to cellulose. it may change in
our lifetimes, perhaps even in my lifetime. not surprising to this
group, payment for electronic forms is an issue.

--klaus! von future prime






