From: Blanc Weber <blancw@microsoft.com>
Date: Mon, 11 Apr 94 20:21:19 PDT
To: greg@ideath.goldenbear.com
Subject: RE: Shot 'Round the World
Message-ID: <9404120321.AA15706@netmail2.microsoft.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


From: Greg Broiles

"We don't insist on all-or-nothing accuracy in other forms of warfare,
why expect it here?"

Because you want to succeed?

"Psychological warfare is about manipulation and FUD
(fear, uncertainty, doubt)."

All's fair in love and war.  What makes it psychological is the faculty 
& type of effect aimed for, and FUD isn't the only thing possible, or 
desireable.

"... we don't need to demonstrate good behavior to convince it/them 
that we deserve or can be trusted......"
". . . to bolster their flagging confidence, they need a good kick in 
the teeth."
"There is no rational argument that can force the non-trusting to trust."
". . . the point may be to create a state of irrationality, not a 
particular rational conclusion."

.   What you would be aiming for here, apparently, is neither their 
psychology nor their intellect.   But actually if you are not intending 
to communicate at all, then all of things which I mentioned are 
irrelevant.  I would leave you to your own devices.

"Perhaps this discourse about "images" isn't useful, and it's time to 
talk about capabilities."

.  What image do you get of the engagement of your capabilities under 
normal circumstances  vs under a totalitarian regime?
What sort of picture is created in your mind by the statements about 
human nature, "endowed ...with inalienable rights", among which are 
included "Life, liberty, Pursuit of Happiness", and what do you suppose 
George thought about that?

Some questions I would ask in regard to this warfare business:
What sort of a win would you be aiming for, which served the purposes 
of rational discussion poorly?  For how long would you be expecting to 
live in the company of those whom you drove to irrationality?  And how 
would you go about the business of returning everything back to a 
viable, liveable state, supposing you achieved victory?

Blanc






