From: lassie!jim%lassie@netcom.com (Jim Nalbandian)
Date: Fri, 6 May 94 01:11:37 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Lobbying/Politics/etc. (fwd)
Message-ID: <184@lassie.lassie.uucp>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



FORWARDED MAIL -------
From: netcomsv.netcom.com!anchor.ho.att.com!wcs (bill.stewart@pleasantonca.ncr.com +1-510-484-6204)
Date: 05 May 94
Originally To: meceng.coe.neu.edu!deeb

> I suspect serious problems implenmenting a law that criminalizes crypto
It wouldn't be that hard to get rid of lots of it, as long as they
made exceptions to let the big corporate customers stay happy (e.g. banks).
The key would be using the civil forfeiture abuse to let them confiscate
computers that *appear* to be using illegal crypto; you can hire a lawyer
to help you get your box back if they suspect it's got UnAmerican Software.
Your goverment crypto license  will let you use Clipper if you obey the rules;
just think of it as your driver's license on the information superhighway....
The Feds could enforce the 55mph speed limits better if they used 
confiscation as well.


1) Any Illegal crypto programs could be removed from Internet in a
matter of hours.

2) Any Illegal crypto message sent via Internet could be analyzed
as illegal and not delivered.

3) Anybody sending such messages would face fines or jail senteces.

4) Any government branch that took your computer could keep it for
no reason (except we are investigating it) for a long time,
practicly until your trail and then maybe forfit it.

5) Users of Illegal crypto could be subject to other legal
survailance. (telephone, movements, dosscia etc.)

6) In this state even if Illegal crypto was not a Felony you would
probly receive probation on first offense, 6 months in county jail
on second offense and 1 year on third and subsequent offenses. I
have done 11 months in county jail and found it racialy enlightning

When everyone that wants a free copy of good private key crypto
systems has it then the government is hard pressed to outlaw it.
FUCKING ASSHOLES ARE TOO STUPID TO USE FTP.

Next time you talk to a cop ask him "What are you going to do when
you are ordered to take guns away from law abiding citizens?"

 
 

--
          * Spelling errors are intentional and international *
        Jim Nalbandian       netcomsv!lassie!jim%lassie@netcom.com
        Tempe, Arizona, USA                   N7SZS@K7BUC.AZ.US.NA
No free man shall ever be de-barred the use of arms. The strongest
reason for the people to retain  there right to keep and bear arms
is as a last  resort to  protect  themselves  against  tyranny  in
government. <-------- Thomas Jefferson                            --




