From: Anonymous <remailer-admin@chaos.bsu.edu>
Date: Thu, 25 Aug 94 13:12:16 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: No Subject
Message-ID: <199408252005.PAA03671@chaos.bsu.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


A couple comments:

(1) They are not offering any form of encryption -- seem to
feel that the intervening Internet mail spools are secure
from would-be blackmailers.

(2) Are suicide hotline communications, like psychiatric
counseling, privileged communications?  In what jurisdictions?

------------------------------
Subject: Support for the Suicidal - Full Launch - jo@samaritans.org

Press Release

August 17, 1994

The Samaritans are a non-religious charity offering emotional support 
to the suicidal and despairing. A test of "Help By E-mail" launched on 
July 14, 1994 proved so successful that an Internet domain is now open 
and is reached by mailing jo@samaritans.org.

The E-mail service is run from Cheltenham, England, and is reached 
from anywhere with Internet access. At the launch,  Mike Haines, the 
Director said:

"During the test month we received over 200 messages. Many were from 
well wishers, journalists and academics but there were around 15 very 
desperate people as well. The need for a full launch of our service 
with an easier address was amply demonstrated." 

The Samaritans have been offering support to the suicidal and 
despairing for over 40 years by phone, visit and letter. Callers are 
guaranteed absolute confidentiality and retain the right to make their 
own decisions including the decision to end their life. Samaritans are 
carefully selected and prepared for this work (for which they are not 
paid). Those working with E-mail have additional training. Volunteers 
read and reply to mail every day of the year. A nominal end date of 
December 31, 1994 has been set but initial results have been so 
encouraging that it is likely to run indefinitely.

The idea of an Internet service was born when a volunteer was 
exploring the UK based CIX conferencing service. Here, he discovered 
the "suicidehelp" self help group and Newsnet groups such as 
"alt.support.depression". After discussions with The Samaritans 
General Office it was decided to try offering a service from 
Cheltenham. The kind donation of a modem by US Robotics was a great 
help as was the assistance of staff at Compulink Information Exchange 
(CIX).

The Samaritans of Cheltenham and District
3 Clarence Road
CHELTENHAM
Glos
England

Emergency phone: +44 242 515777
Press enquiries: +44 452 854017
E-mail: jo@samaritans.org (samaritans@cix.compulink.co.uk retained)
Anonymous E-mail: samaritans@anon.penet.fi (Extremely Slow!)

<end>





