From: nzook@math.utexas.edu
Date: Thu, 28 Jul 94 07:55:23 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: (fwd) Possible compromise of anon.penet.fi
Message-ID: <9407281453.AA23808@pelican.ma.utexas.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Path: math.utexas.edu!news.dell.com!tadpole.com!uunet!spool.mu.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!gatech!news-feed-1.peachnet.edu!news.duke.edu!eff!news.kei.com!hermes.oc.com!convex!cnn.eng.convex.com!barnett
From: barnett@convex.com (Paul Barnett)
Newsgroups: alt.privacy
Subject: Possible compromise of anon.penet.fi
Date: 27 Jul 94 22:09:28 GMT
Organization: CONVEX News Network, Engineering (cnn.eng), Richardson, Tx USA
Lines: 29
Message-ID: <barnett.775346968@cnn.eng.convex.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: zeppelin.convex.com

Someone has been collecting email addresses, apparently from postings
to Usenet, and forging them to anonymous postings through
anon.penet.fi to alt.test.

The text of the posting states the REAL email address of the poster,
under a posting attributed to the anonymous ID assigned to that
poster.

I received a notification that an anonymous ID has allocated for me,
followed by a confirmation of a posting to alt.test.  Looking in
alt.test, you will see as many as 500 similar postings.  Most of the
anonymous IDs are numbered sequentially.

However, there are some lower numbered anonymous IDs, presumably in
previous use by the addressee named in the text of the message.  These
anonymous addresses are now compromised.

I am posting to this newsgroup because there appears to be some
correlation between the contributers to this newsgroup and the
addresses that were forged to the messages.  It may be coincidental,
but I thought this was a fair place to post a warning anyway.

My condolences to those people that have been caught in this net.
This is one of the most despicable forms of net.terrorism that I have
encountered.

-- 
Paul Barnett        Convex Computer Corp.
MPP OS Development  Richardson, TX




