From: Dave Banisar <epic@cpsr.org>
Date: Fri, 29 Apr 94 14:17:34 PDT
To: clipper@washofc.cpsr.org
Subject: New Electronic Privacy Group Formed
Message-ID: <9404291702.AA33383@Hacker2.cpsr.digex.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


                        EPIC Press Release
	
									
		          			

              Electronic Privacy Information Center
               666 Pennsylvania Ave., SE, Suite 301 
                       Washington, DC  20003 
                       (202) 544-9240 (tel)  
                       (202) 547-5482 (fax) 
                       epic@cpsr.org (email)
									
			          			

                                 April 29, 1994

                  NEW PRIVACY CENTER ESTABLISHED 

                   EPIC TO MONITOR DATA HIGHWAY

WASHINGTON, DC --  A new organization was launched today to address growing 
public concerns about privacy protection for the national information 
infrastructure.  The Electronic Privacy Information Center (EPIC) will focus 
on emerging threats to personal privacy.

	Among the threats are the government's controversial Clipper computer 
encryption proposal, which has caused widespread protests from companies and 
computer users around the world.  Proposals for an information superhighway 
and recent plans to reform the nation's health care system also involve 
significant threats to personal privacy.

	"We have established EPIC to focus public attention on these new 
privacy issues -- the Clipper Chip, the Digital Telephony Proposal, medical 
record privacy, and the sale of consumer data." said Marc Rotenberg, director 
of EPIC.

	A 1993 poll by the Lou Harris organization found 80 percent of 
Americans concerned about threats to their privacy.  More than two thirds 
believe they have lost all control over personal information.  Still, 70 
percent believe that privacy is a fundamental right comparable to "life, 
liberty and the pursuit of happiness," and a clear majority of Americans 
favor establishment of a privacy agency within the government. 
 
	EPIC brings together an unprecedented group of experts from computer 
science, information law, civil liberties, human rights, public interest 
advocacy, library and research communities, as well as  privacy experts and 
scholars. Among the members of the EPIC Advisory Board is former Congressman 
and Presidential candidate John B. Anderson.  Mr. Anderson said today at a 
Capitol Hill press conference he was very pleased by the establishment of the 
new organization.

	"Privacy is one of the bedrock American values.  EPIC will help 
ensure that privacy is protected in the information age," said Mr. Anderson.

	Simon Davies, the Director General of Privacy International, welcomed 
the launch of EPIC. Speaking from London, England today he said,  "EPIC is an 
exciting initiative on the leading edge of privacy protection. My hope is 
that EPIC will be the forerunner of many such organizations around the 
world." 

	EPIC is a joint project of the Fund for Constitutional Government and 
Computer Professionals for Social Responsibility.  FCG is a non-profit 
charitable organization established in 1974 to protect civil liberties and 
constitutional rights.  CPSR is a national membership organization 
established in 1982 by professionals in the computing field concerned about 
the social impact of computer technology.

	For more information contact EPIC, 666 Pennsylvania Ave., SE Suite 
301, Washington, DC  20003.  202 544 9240 (tel), 202 547 5482 (fax) 
epic@cpsr.org (email). Current materials include a program description and 
list of Frequently Asked Questions about EPIC.

Marc Rotenberg, EPIC Director
David L. Sobel, Legal Counsel
Dave Banisar, Policy Analyst








