From: jdd@aiki.demon.co.uk (Jim Dixon)
Date: Tue, 2 Aug 94 03:40:51 PDT
To: yusuf921@raven.csrv.uidaho.edu
Subject: Re: The Terrorists are coming!
Message-ID: <3294@aiki.demon.co.uk>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


In message <Pine.3.87.9408011942.A12890-0100000@raven.csrv.uidaho.edu> CatAshleigh writes:

>   first of all the only "muslim" (NOT ARAB, NO ARABS HAVE NUKES, the only

How do you know?

> country with nukes in the middle east is Israel) country
> with a nuclear program is pakistan, and they're years away from anything
> that could be stolen.

Ahem.  Uzbekistan is Muslim, and is also the third or fourth largest
nuclear power, and also is in a part of the world where there is a
long tradition of ... how do I say it gently ... greasing the palm.
I spent quite a while next door in Afghanistan and am familiar with
the culture.

A large part of the former USSR was Muslim and there were strategic and
tactical nuclear weapons scattered all over the place (tactical weapons
are used as mines, fired from artillery pieces, carried by short range
missiles, and dropped from fighter bombers).  If none of these is
unaccounted for, it is a genuine miracle.

Also, there has been quite a lot of press coverage here in the UK of
the defector from Saudi Arabia who claims that (a) the Saudis backed both
the Iraqi and the Pakistani nuclear programs and (b) the Saudis at
least have some nuclear materials.

> second of all there are more deaths caused by lighting on golf courses,
> ask any insurance agency.

Also not true.	The total number killed directly and indirectly in
Japan alone by atomic bombs is certainly over 100,000.	I can't believe
that that many people have been killed by lightning on golf courses!

Then again, we are talking about elementary arithmetic.  Yes, the
probability of someone being killed by lightning on a golf course
tomorrow is much much higher than that of the detonation of a nuclear
weapon in a populated area.  But when that nuclear weapon goes off,
it's not going to be just one golfer that gets scorched.

> some call it pork barrel, I call it consperasy theory to protray muslims 
> as terroists.

Pork barrel?
--
Jim Dixon




