From: Bill O'Hanlon <wmo@digibd.com>
Date: Wed, 17 Aug 94 09:21:13 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: cfs & remailers
In-Reply-To: <9408171522.AA27902@elvis.tamu.edu>
Message-ID: <9408171615.AA29053@poe.digibd.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


On Wed, 17 Aug 94 10:22:19 -0500  Allan Bailey wrote:
--------
> 
> Has anyone considered using a CFS directory (or directories) for
> a remailer's files, spool, etc?
> 
> Any thoughts about such security measures?
> 

I considered it, for the remailer@rebma.mn.org.  I'm already running CFS
for personal entertainment & education, so it's a possibility.


Here's my assumptions about how I'd operate it:

1) CFS file systems are mounted sometime after boot, manually, by me.  The
   passphrase is entered at mount time.  (Obviously, supplying the passphrase
   via an /etc/rc script defeats any security that CFS might add.)

2) The file systems remain mounted throughout the uptime of the system, since
   mail can come in at any arbitrary time, primarily while I sleep.

3) If someone comes knocking loudly at my door to do the raid thing, I'll 
   have bigger things to worry about than unmounting the CFS file systems.
   My wife and daughter will be formost on my mind.

I thought of two problems with it.

1) I'd not only have to put the home directory of the remailer user under CFS,
   but also the uucp and sendmail spool directories.  (Rebma has a UUCP 
   connection for getting mail.)  Otherwise, security would be pointless, since
   the messages would be coming in the clear to the spool directories.  Maybe
   this wouldn't be so bad, but it seems like I'd have to do a lot of 
   tinkering before I'd trust that sendmail wasn't gonna drop my other mail
   on the floor.  (I get some consulting-type mail on this machine.  
   Potentially, I can miss out on financial opportunity if my mail is not 
   dependable.  Chalk my caution up to pure greed.)
   

2) I'd have to come up with some kludge to spool the incoming mail files in
   a directory if the CFS file systems weren't mounted.  (For example, if 
   power failed on the machine, or it crashed and otherwise rebooted, and I
   didn't notice and wasn't around to type the passphrase in to remount the
   CFS system.)  



Those two thoughts make me question what security I'm buying for my trouble.
Seems to me what I'm getting is protection from a law enforcement type or other
computer thief who unplugs my machine and takes it away.  (If they want to
make a backup before turning the machine off, with the CFS file systems
mounted, they have to spend some time at it.)
  
The people whose security would be helped are those who do a single hop or 
send unencrypted mail through the remailer.  People who use the remailer
properly already have encrypted their mail.

I guess that I thought it was too much effort to do, given that the only people
who would derive added security are those who were too stupid to use the 
remailer properly in the first place.

Anyone see a flaw in my reasoning?  I actually was considering doing it anyway,
just for the fun of it, when I had free time.  If there is some valid security 
reason, it might move up on my to-do list.





