From: remailer@merde.dis.org (remailer bogus account)
Date: Sun, 16 Jan 94 09:26:01 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: The Detweiler Saga
Message-ID: <9401161725.AA19227@merde.dis.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


once again, I am getting tired of trying to convince people that don't
really give a damn and would rather amuse themselves by inventing new
ways of calling me insane. I am tired of hearing the deafening silence
of thousands of lurkers saying, quite eloquently, <SHRUG>.  

How Wrong I Have Been.  So wrong.

We always took Detweiler for granted.  Our rock.  Our knight.  Will now our 
beloved Atlas shrug?  Yea, will our prophet fall?  You presence filled 
the heavens.  You were without beginning middle or end.  

no one and a star stand am to am
flaming dream to dreaming flame
millionary wherewhens distant as reckoned by the unimmortal mind

Those words come back to me as I reflect on our salad days, together in 
Prague, before the revolution.  All, zorn.  All, zorn.

And I remember what you wrote, that dark day, and I remember the sound of 
the T-62's as if we were there again...

the sunlight in the garden
hardens and grows cold
we cannot cage the minute
within its nets of gold

when all is *told*
we cannot BEG for PARDON

THE SKY WAS GOOD FOR FLYING
DEFYING THE CHURCH BELLS!
AND EVERY  _EVIL_ _IRON_ _SIREN_
AND WHAT IT TELLS
THE EARTH
compells...

(How those words haunt me now.  How they haunt me.)

I may focus on more damaging counterrevolutionary
tactics soon and just give up on the BrainDead out here. I have tried to
start a fire but get nothing but wet drizzle. soon I will wash my hands
of it all completely, having done all I can, and the cyberanarchists will
advance unhindered to an internet site near you.

Every word burns like a knife across raw nerves. His radiance is 
blinding now! (o deliver me deliver me)

O Lance, I can see your eyes shining; with an open mouth you glitter 
in an array of colors, and your body touches the sky.  I look at you and 
my heart trembles; I have lost all courage and all peace of mind.  When I 
see your mouths with their fearful teeth, mouths burning like fires at 
the end of time, I forget where I am and I have no place to go.  I see 
our warriors and all the cryptonihilists who are here to fight.  All are 
rushing into your awful jaws!  I see some of them crushed by your teeth.  
As rivers flow into the ocean, all the warriors of the world are passing 
into your fiery jaws; all creatures rush to their destruction like moths 
into a flame.  Filled with your terrible radiance, the whole of creation 
bursts into flame!!

You have murdered me.  murdered me murdered me murdered me murdered me

murdered


george william herbert                                           gwh@crl.com
Work: System / Net Administrator, CR Labs         Home/Play: Retro Aerospace
KD6WUQ     gwh@crl.com    gwh@soda.berkeley.edu    gwh@{isu,exec}.isunet.edu
deltaV = g * Isp * ln(Mr) ... it's not just a good idea, it's the Law
----------------------------------------------------------------------------





