From: John Young <jya@pipeline.com>
Date: Tue, 28 Jun 94 10:43:03 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: No Subject
Message-ID: <199406281742.NAA08992@p03.pipeline.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

Dave Otto wrote:

  I think the issue, at this point, is not so much whether the 
NSA goons
actually threatened his life, but that they have consistently 
attempted to
suppress crypto anyway they can.  That the NSA has tried to 
intimidate
Bidzos is no secret.  That the NSA considers PGP a threat to 
their domain
is also well known.

  CPSR and EFF are doing an admirable job of taking the fight 
to the beltway;
but outside the net, the grass roots support just isn't there.  
As has been
pointed out by PRZ et al., the primary reason to avoided hacks 
to PGP is
that doing so fragments what standards we have now.  The 
release of the
MIT PGP was the first step in legitimizing cryptography.  The 
next step is
to install interoperable crypto on EVERY box out there.  While 
I don't
advocate bypassing your local sysadmin, try to get PGP 
installed on each
machine you touch.  Use 2.6 (MIT in U.S., _ui_ elsewhere).  
Publish your
key.  Tell your friends.  Annoy your family.  Irrate your boss 
;-).

  My wife suggested that my activities would have gotten me 
"black-listed"
40 years ago.  I suggest that the NSA would like to do exactly 
that to
individuals like Bidzos and PRZ, but it is too late (and the 
net would make 
it virtually impossible anyway).  Besides, some things are 
worth fighting for.



Dave rightly suggests that "black-listing" and other 
stigmatizing and threatening
inhibit the rights of citizens.  Such attacks also intimidate 
others who learn of 
the assault on organizations and persons and who fear they may 
become targets.  

To oppose this it seems also right that any attack we learn 
about should be posted 
in this forum, at the least.

Please post who else NSA -- and its like -- has threatened 
besides Bidzos and PRZ.


John

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.6

iQCVAgUBLhBhiyC2hhsUMyZpAQH/JAP/fjhJrxoe76Dbo2+wHD9EcFl2PObKgqEa
vjNaRomGIYgb/BKe/M4DejgtNgEGi+DyGoFspf14u18q2ZzFV8iQFJjaP7y5GFFI
/5ztKpAH/ERCpNmF6L9jOYqIy6p3FZTsMVsxQwSW9IsM+XD7jxW7g0QU/NkvcTIn
Vz7Bt0hjY9s=
=AlBx
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----





