From: rjc@gnu.ai.mit.edu (Ray)
Date: Sun, 10 Apr 94 23:44:13 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Zero Knowledge Authentication and StrongBox
Message-ID: <9404110643.AA14883@geech.gnu.ai.mit.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Derek Upham says:
Look at "Strongbox: A System for Self-Securing Programs" by J. D.
Tygar and B. S. Yee in the "CMU Computer Science 25th Anniversary
Commemorative" proceedings (from 1991).  As the paper describes:

    ``Strongbox uses an authentication protocol derived from Rabin's
    observation about the square root operation: if one can extract
    square roots modulo  n  where  n=p*q ,  p  and  q  primes, then
    one can factor  n .  [That should be `if and only if', i.e.,
    finding the square roots is too hard unless you created  n  in the
    first place.]  

Donald Knuth sez in Seminumerical Algorithms p389:
"However, the system [SQRT Box] has a fatal flaw. Anyone with access
to a SQRT box can easily determine the factors of its N. This not
only permits cheating by dishonest employees, or threats of
extortion, it also allows people to reveal their p and q, after which
they might claim that their "signature" on some transmitted
document was a forgery."

     I don't really get Knuth's comment since the "secret key" (p and q)
can be stored in the SQRT Box with a passkey just like PGP stores
encrypted secret keys, unless of course Knuth means "given a 
SQRT box, by feeding it lots of numbers and getting the resulting
SQRT, one can determine the factorization of its internal modulus."
On the preceding page, Knuth describes RSA and RSA signatures but he
doesn't make the same comment that "people could give our their
p and q and claim signatures were forged." I usually trust Knuth,
so is he wrong, or does he just have something against sqrt(x) mod N
cryptosystems?

-Ray
-- Ray Cromwell        |    Engineering is the implementation of science;   --
-- rjc@gnu.ai.mit.edu  |       politics is the implementation of faith.     --




