From: "Ian Farquhar" <ianf@sydney.sgi.com>
Date: Tue, 29 Nov 94 19:46:06 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Security Services
Message-ID: <9411301438.ZM9135@wiley.sydney.sgi.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


>From The Australian, Tue 29th November:
Secret Service Files Lost in Blaze,
by Cameron Steward (Foreign Affairs Writer)

"Hundreds of top-secret documents relevant to the Federal
Government's inquiry into the Australian Secret Intelligence
Service were destroyed by a fire that swept through the ASIS
headquarters in Canberra at the weekend."

"The fire has erased highly sensitive ASIS files and archives
that detailed the activities and operations of the troubled
spy agency over the past decade."

"The blaze is a big blow to the Government's inquiry into
accountability and management of ASIS because it destroyed
many of the records needed to adequately assess the organisation's
performance."

"But despite the suspicious timing of the accident, the Government
does not believe it was arson and says that the blaze appears to have
been sparked by an electrical fault."

"'I can confirm that the fire broke out at 2am on Saturday morning
on the fourth floor of the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade
Building,' a DFAT spokeswoman said."

"'The damage appears to have been fairly extensive and is believed to
have been caused by an electrical fault.'"

"Sources yesterday said the area damaged by the blzae was far greater
than was originally revealed by the authorities, with the initial
damage estimate of about $200,000 ballooning to at least $1 million."

"The fourth floor of the DFAT building has housed ASIS for years."

"One intelligence source said last night that it was 'highly
coincidental' for ASIS to experience such a fire in the midst of a
Government inquiry into its operations."

"It was rumored yesterday that the fire also destroyed thousands of
files that the service was alleged to have kept on Australian citizens."

"Two former ASIS officers alleged in March that the organisation illegally
held files on thousands of Australian citizens, despite the fact that
it is not part of its role involving gaining foreign intelligence."

"The former agents also claimed ASIS has bribed politicans in Malaysia
and had helped British Intelligence obtain confidential information
that harmed Australia's interests."

(Small note here which was not in the article: the ASIS jargon for MI6
is 'head office'.  Many of the officers were trained by MI6.)

"The allegations by the  former officers prompted the Government to conduct
an inquiry into the control and accountability of the organisation."

"The inquiry, headed by former NSW Supreme Court judge Mr Gordon Samuels,
is also examining the 'protection of ASIS intelligence sources and methods'
as well as the 'resolution of grievances and complaints relating to ASIS."

"The inquiry has been in progress for several months.  It is still
taking evidence and is due to report to the Government early in the New
Year."

This article was transcribed without permission from the paper, for the
purposes of research and study as defined in the "fair use" provisions
of the Copyright act.

-------

Yet another depressing but compelling reminder that our privacy has as
many enemies within the Government as without.

BTW, this was the same TLA which I mentioned some weeks ago in connection
with the bungled raid on the Sheraton Wentworth Hotel.

						Ian.

#include <std.disclaimer>






