From: geoffw@nexsys.net (Geoff White)
Date: Mon, 6 Jun 94 08:04:17 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: JOB POSTING: InterNex
Message-ID: <199406061501.IAA25069@nexsys.nexsys.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Forgive my posting this here but I figure that I might just get
someone who has the skillset and the sensibilities to understand
the potential future issues that a service provider might have to 
deal with around "privacy issues" anyway:



---------------------------------------------------------------------------


		MANAGER OF NETWORK OPERATIONS

[This is NOT an entry level position]

InterNex is seeking a versatile and dynamic individual to be a
hands-on senior technical leader in our rapidly growing Network
Operations Center. This multifaceted job will involve all aspects of
network and system administration and management in a TCP/IP based,
public internet. You will have a leadership role in the design and
construction of a wide area internet that incorporates high bandwidth
technologies such as ISDN, Frame Relay, T1, SMDS, and ATM.

You will participate in the design, construction, and maintenance of a
variety of network devices and software that generate and sustain the
growing area of Cyberspace for which InterNex is responsible. You will
also support in-house development, including creating tools to
facilitate network management, perform connection billing, implement
bandwidth management, and automate new user configuration.

The successful candidate will also provide technical expertise to
customers with varying levels of technical sophistication and support
other members of the InterNex team. You should have good writing
skills and be able to communicate clearly.

This job requires proven proficiency with Sun System Administration
skills, a solid working knowledge of the IP protocol suite, router
configuration, SMTP/Sendmail, SNMP, DNS configuration, Perl, C/C++
program porting, and firewall construction. Experience with Windows,
Novell, Macintosh, X.500, ATM are pluses. Knowledge of Telco systems,
and project leadership skills are desirable. Commitment to teamwork is
an essential aspect of the job.

More than four years previous system experience is required. A degree
in computer science or a related field is desirable.

InterNex is located in the highly desirable mid-peninsula community of
Menlo Park. Close to Stanford University, on the edge of Silicon
Valley, 35 minutes from the Pacific Ocean and San Francisco. InterNex
offers a high quality of life and a team of professionals dedicated to
setting new standards of excellence in technology and customer
service.

Compensation package includes salary, health care and stock options
and is based on experience and performance reviews.

For immediate consideration, please e-mail your resume (ASCII and
postscript) to personnel@internex.net, or fax it to (415) 473-3062. No
phone calls please.

InterNex Information Services is a rapidly growing Internet service
provider start-up that specializes in helping businesses do business
on the Internet. We provide our customers One-Stop-Shopping for
high-bandwidth connectivity utilizing leading edge technology. We also
address the need for Internet presence by providing electronic
publishing services such as WWW, Gopher, WAIS, FTP, and custom
servers.

InterNex is an equal opportunity employer.




