From: lassie!jim%lassie@netcom.com (Jim Nalbandian)
Date: Mon, 9 May 94 15:09:15 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Idiots
Message-ID: <249@lassie.lassie.uucp>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain




Well it seems like you people are really as stupid as it seems.
Anybody (That is the dumb fucks name) decided to mail me twenty or
so messages thru a remailer to try and clog my slow timeshare
environment mail reader. Also someone named Ryn R. Snyder (This guy
is extra autistic) did the same thing. Too bad I read all my mail
offline by UUCP on an old slow IBM PS/2 MOD80 (intresting though,
local supermarkets use this model computer as a product code
server). 


Would not it be funny if someone set there .forward command in
there little used Internet timeshare terminal environment to the
cypherpunks mailing list and then subsribed to the list.


I guess most people missed the point about distribution but that's
OK, CLIPPER is a much better crypto program anyway. People that
are not members of the Internt clique are expossed to it almost
nightly on the news wheras they are not exposed to PGP or other
RSA type crypto. I think marketing whizzes call this product
recognition (don't ask me I am just a dumm as dirt sod buster).

Oh well, I must go now, I now you all respect and adore me as much
as I do you. Also it seems that the few fools that send repeated
stupid mail to my box are in the minority. Thanks for the excelent
and way cool mail that the rest of you send.

32% had heard or read about Internet (AKA Superhighway)

68% had NEVER heard or read of Internet

I quess that 68% can FTP to a site to get PGP (etc.). Out of that
agregate I wonder what percent has heard of PGP or RSA? CLIPPER?

 

 

--
          * Spelling errors are intentional and international *
        Jim Nalbandian       netcomsv!lassie!jim%lassie@netcom.com
        Tempe, Arizona, USA                   N7SZS@K7BUC.AZ.US.NA
No free man shall ever be de-barred the use of arms. The strongest
reason for the people to retain  there right to keep and bear arms
is as a last  resort to  protect  themselves  against  tyranny  in
government. <-------- Thomas Jefferson                            --




