From: anonymous-remailer@xs4all.nl (Name withheld on request)
Date: Thu, 1 Dec 94 23:07:52 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: PGP Tools under Linux
Message-ID: <199412020709.AA04740@xs1.xs4all.nl>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

>I am using PGPTools to handle all the crypto functions in the second
>generation remailer that I have written. All the copies of PGPTools that I
>have found seem to be set up to compile on SUN workstations only.

That's interesting, because I developed it under Linux and MS/DOS, and there
was a lot of trouble at the beginning with it not running on big-endian
machines. It sounds like whoever "fixed" it for sparcs broke it for
little-endian machines. The original should still be on ftp.csn.net; get it
there and it should work.

>Mixmaster is both a remailer and a front end, and therefor must run on many
>different platforms. I have been able to compile PGPTools on Linux and
>FreeBSD, but PGPTools produces invalid RSA blocks. If you (or anyone else
>reading this) have ported PGPTools to other platforms could you send me the
>source and makefile, or point me to them. If not, could you help me do it,
>the source code is a tangle, and it will take me a long time to do on my own
>(I am a brute force programer, not a C wizard).

Get the original, test it, and post the results.

Some people have asked if I am still around. Yes, I am, and I'm thinking
about a major update of PGPTools. The update would involve getting out any
persistent bugs I can find, cleaning up the code and making it completely
reentrant, and replacing all 2.3a modules with 2.6.x modules so it is
patent-safe. It also needs some kind of exception handling for disk errors
and the like. A pass-through function for the disk access calls, and a way
of freeing all memory before a longjmp to bail out, for example.

Before doing this, I need to hear from the PGP development team. There have
been rumors of an upcoming PGP API, something similar to PGPTools. If this
is the case, let me know so I don't waste time writing an incompatible
version. If this is not the case, let me know so I can get started.

More information about NexusBucks, please. Is it for real? How many coins in
circulation? Have any services been bought with them yet? What is the
address of the Magic Money server? Is it fully automatic, or are messages
being manually processed?

"There's never been a time in our history where it's been possible
to place information beyond the reach of the collective efforts of
society, but with modern cryptography you can."
                                                  - Phil Zimmermann

"Large primes united, will never be divided!"
                                                  - Pr0duct Cypher

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.6.2

iQCVAwUBLt6cDcGoFIWXVYodAQGZ8AP/bZASa9sn+QzDiQkDJqacBAPhpqQHfkhL
7kWh7belMm8gA6KFmLfZcPywCWm3zU1QOS2+xRzPUGP0f7MrQjDuj3h7M4X3fDDV
DiybwF4rIUAs2wBubioTYwE+as6N//CmfbtpkRdPVWhg5rnvgEOU+lzEvkhFt0tc
2MzkmHTBvIQ=
=CSzj
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----




