From: nobody@rosebud.ee.uh.edu
Date: Sun, 6 Feb 94 21:16:09 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: CRYPTA PLUS W/ RSA
Message-ID: <9402070514.AA03925@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


01/31 0936  ( BW)(TELEQUIP)
   Business Editors  
   HOLLIS, N.H. (JAN. 31) BUSINESS WIRE - January 31, 1994--Telequip
Corp. today announced the first available PCMCIA compatible flash
memory card with high-level embedded security functions.  
   The credit card sized Crypta Plus is targeted at companies
implementing secure tokens for mobile computer users.  These tokens
will allow users to conveniently communicate and access confidential
data across public computer and telecommunications networks.  
   Industry experts predict widespread use of secure tokens for
corporate and customer communications, database access, electronic
funds transfer, defense and government programs, and any other
activity involving confidential electronic information transfer. Sales
professionals will be able to travel with proprietary information and
communicate securely with the home office. Physicians will be able to
use tokens, loaded with patient files, to perform rounds, order tests
and even write prescriptions that can be signed with a digital
signature.  It will be possible to process and pay insurance claims
directly from the field.  Mobile computer users will conveniently
carry and securely communicate large amounts of confidential
information.  
   Crypta Plus cards have up to 20 Megabytes of solid-state,
nonvolatile memory and require no batteries.  The memory capacity will
increase in conjunction with technological advancements in the flash
chip industry.  The patent- pending card consists of a data storage
unit, storage-access locking circuitry, and a tamper-proof key
information substorage unit in the form of a smartcard integrated
circuit.  A stored program within the smart card integrated circuit
allows an access password to be programmed directly into the silicon
from an external source.  The locking circuitry prevents access to the
data stored on the memory card unless the user inputs the identifying 
password.  The smartcard integrated circuit can be used to perform 
cryptographic functions, including digital signatures.  It also
provides secure storage for the keys necessary to perform those
functions. The Crypta Plus card satisfies three vital needs of mobile
computer users: 
    
o   It can securely store private information in a compact, easily 
transportable storage device. 
o   It protects electronically stored data against unauthorized access
if theCrypta Plus card is lost or stolen. 
o   It makes cryptographic functions and secure key storage readily
availableto allow protection and authentication of data being sent to
remote sites.

   Several important technology trends have converged to make the
development of the Crypta Plus card possible.  The PCMCIA standard has
been swiftly adopted by the industry leaders in personal computing.
This allows the Crypta Plus card to operate cross-platform in most
mobile computing devices.  The explosive implementation of distributed
networks and wireless communication now makes data security a vital
tool for insuring and protecting personal and corporate interests. 
The rapid growth of Public-key cryptography and digital signature
standards is creating secure environments for access, transmission and
authentication of private information.  
   Along with U.S. Government standards for digital signatures and
encryption, Telequip will embed RSA, the popular Public-key
cryptosystem into the Crypta Plus card.  "We're excited about
Telequip's Crypta Plus technology - it's a perfect match for
distributed, robust security systems such as RSA," said Jim Bidzos,
president of RSA Data Security Inc.  The Crypta Plus card will also 
fully comply to the soon-to-be published PKCS 11 specification, which
will be the first open, published standard for use of Public-key
cryptography with tokens and smart cards.  PKCS, or the Public Key
Cryptography Standards, were established early in 1991 by a consortium
of RSA Data Security and its major licensees, including Microsoft,
Apple, Sun, Lotus, Digital, National Semiconductor, and many others.
The backing of the PKCS consortium members will make PKCS  11 the most
important standard for secure tokens and smartcards in the world.  
   Michael F. Jones, president of Telequip Corp., points out that
"Public-key cryptography and digital signatures are central to the
future of electronic commerce.  These techniques depend on
successfully keeping the private key and its operations secure.  The
company believes the Crypta Plus card is an ideal personal token for
performing private-key operations and implementing cross-platform
security.  It can be thought of as a portable object in which data,
applications and security all travel together in one convenient
package. Users will carry Crypta Plus cards with them to run
applications, store data, configure systems, sign documents and access
network resources."  
   --30--ed/bos  
   CONTACT:  Telequip Corp.  
   Greg Dunne, 603/881-5616




