From: "Robert M. Humphrey" <Robert@rmh.khabarovsk.su>
Date: Thu, 7 Jul 94 00:15:48 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Need help in Russia...............
Message-ID: <AAoAy6kGh7@rmh.khabarovsk.su>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


This is the first time I've been in this system, so I guess I just jump in.
I am an American Communications Engineer doing business in Russia. You
think you have problems with privacy! Anyhow, after having to eat the
contents of a few of my messages as served by the local Russian
Administration (who aren't on my mailing list!), I decided to try for a
little privacy. No joy in Mudville!! A friend in the US suggested that
I try PGP. Then I find out that I can't have someone send me a copy. Then
I find out that I can download something from CompuServe. Right! Have you
ever tried data on a Russian Telephone line? I was abl to get about 20KB
before Ma BellSkov decided to cut me off. Lots of times. I have access to
InterNet e-mail through some system in Moscow (about 5000 miles from here)
and I do have access to UUENCODE and DECODE plus the usual PkWare stuff.
Anyone with any ideas how I can get going on PGP or something else under
the circumstances would be more than welcome.
   By the way, a simple system probably won't do much good. When the climate
changed in Russia, a lot of very capable KGB people ended up with no jobs.
Since they had the skills needed, they either entered the Russian Mafia,
went into Industrial Espionage or (just to show how desparate they were and
how little self respect that had left) became lawyers! It's the second group
that I have to deal with. If it's not well encrypted, you can buy any
information that exists over here.
   If anyone has any ideas on how I can get going in this direction, let me
know at:
               Robert@rmh.khabarovsk.su

BTW...Khabarovsk is a city of about 700,000 located 20km from the Manchurian
border with china in Far Far Eastern Russia (less than 500 miles from the
Pacific coast. I do mostly Satellite communications and many types of
radio communications.
Thanks
Bob




