From: "Gary Jeffers" <CCGARY@MIZZOU1.missouri.edu>
Date: Wed, 6 Apr 94 13:59:27 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Canadian Revolt
Message-ID: <9404062059.AA14621@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


   A great article has has appeared in the Columbia Tribune, April 04,
94 from Associated Press.

"CANADIANS GROW MORE REBELLIOUS WHILE SEEKING MORAL BEARINGS"

  Some quotes: "A booming underground economy has sprung up, largely in
reaction to a hated federal goods and services tax of 7 percent on
virtually everything, even postage stamps, added to provincial sales
taxes of up to 12 percent."

   "It is common for home-repair contractors, auto mechanics, landscap-
ers & other small entrepreneurs to give 2 estimates: cash, with no paper
work, & a much higher estimate that includes taxes & a receipt."

   "Cigarette taxes as high as 400% caused a revolt among Quebec
merchants, who began selling cheap contraband smokes openly in defi-
ance of the law. The revolt spread, & ultimately, the federal govern-
ment & several provinces drastically reduced tobacco taxes."

    "A judge in Ontario ordered a ban on publication of evidence in a
sensational sex-murder case until a 2nd person charged had been tried.
It didn't take long for details to spread across Canada through computer
networks."

   "Things are so bad in New Brunswick that the provincial government
urges citizens to inform on people they suspect of evading taxes, using
a crime-stoppers telephone number New Brunswickers call "The Rat Line.""

   "Is government losing control over the people?" "How does a gov'ment
enforce a publication ban in an electronic age?" "What does a heavily
indebted government do when it can push taxes no higher?" "In some
cases, its government at the limit of its control, or the limit of how
much control people will tolerate."

   Hey! is this happy news or what? I'm surprised that AP carried this.
I'm surprised that no other C'punks mentioned this. Didn't anyone else's
paper carry this?

   This is shameful! Our docile homebody neighbors to the north are out-
doing us in revolting! All that Americans can do is get into race,
gender, & ethnic hostilities contrived by our Federal govt. & its bedmate
big-news-media. Of course this is why the Feds have contrived & fed
these hostilities. Otherwise, we'd notice that all the Federal govt.
does is take approx. 25-30% of our money, encourage internal hostilities
& monopolies, & in this century, drag us into wars all over the world.
Strategic Investing has predicted that in the next few years the Federal
gov. will lose a lot of its power. Not many were predicting the demise
of the Soviet Union a few years before it did so. Lets hope the Feds
won't have completely destroyed our economy before we dump them.

   Note to our foreign list members: About all we hear from our mass
media news sources of foreign conflicts are body counts, statements
of "strife", & press releases. Its pretty bad in content although the
production values are great. Usually we don't get told the really good
news of State powers lost - such as taxes not able to be collected, id
schemes that fail, laws collectively scoffed at. If you have some
good news - write!
                                           Yours Truly,
                                           Gary Jeffers

                            PUSH EM BACK! PUSH EM BACK!
                            WWWAAAAYYYY  BBBAAACCCKKK!
                            BBBEEEAAATTTT STATE!




