From: blancw@pylon.com
Date: Mon, 22 Aug 94 21:56:01 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Multiple Solutions
Message-ID: <199408230456.VAA22021@deepthought.pylon.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Questions for Cryptids:

Considering that:

Everyone wants to have access, but no one wants 'their' info to 
be  available indiscriminately.
Everyone wants ease-of-use, but no one wants to have their 
system made  vulnerable by it.
Everyone wants wide markets, but no one wants to have easily  
duplicatable products.
Everyone wants to corner the market for their product, but no 
one wants  a monopoly of one - or a reduction in choices.

..    Would you say that ideally all electronic information 
should be  encrypted as a matter of course; is it the best 
circumstance to have  absolutely everything encrypted, with 
systems or processes for access  available only to select or 
paying members of the chosen cabal, no exceptions?

      Given that personal information is  shared almost 
automatically between & among all sorts of businesses &  gov. 
agencies, and that in order to prevent that, laws & regulations 
would be called on to put the label of illegality & the force 
of the law behind them:

..     How could (would, should?) the procurement of services, 
where one  is requested to give out personal financial or other 
information in  order to receive them, be accomplished in an 
anarcho-capitalist system  of operations whereby 
interactions/transactions might be 'illegal' yet  supremely 
functional & directly beneficial, while not also being  
intrusive & offensive? How could all of this data be 
'contained' so  that it would not be irreverently distributed 
by irresponsible  parties?

..    What, in such a system, would be a method for redress of 
violations of contract -  personal vendettas?

I'm imagining these elements within a context wherein all 
things are  electronically possible, though only some are 
desireable, but all are  individually manageable & 
controllable.  

Blanc 





