From: rarachel@prism.poly.edu (Arsen Ray Arachelian)
Date: Tue, 3 May 94 19:06:38 PDT
To: jims@Central.KeyWest.MPGN.COM (Jim Sewell)
Subject: Re: Announcement RE: Lobbying...
In-Reply-To: <9405031417.AA03772@Central.KeyWest.MPGN.COM>
Message-ID: <9405040153.AA24195@prism.poly.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text


>   I do want to remind those who were afraid of having their names on
>   a list that there is a 90% chance that someone in the NSA, FBI, etc
>   has done a whois to majordomo and already has your email name which
>   is all that I'd suggested in the first place.

And they can kiss my fat ass for all I care.  As long as crypto is legal
there ain't a thing they can use that list for except to deny you jobs.
Look at PZ.  They still haven't had the balls to have him fully arrested.
Sure he's under suspicion.  But how much net noise will happen if he does
get jail time?  How much anarchy is the NSA looking for?  My gut feeling is
that the second he's slammed in jail that a lot of folks will just mass
export crypto just for the hell of it.  Are they going to spend billions
trying to investigate a few hundred thousand violations?

At one point, I certainly feared their wrath, but it no longer matters.
The worst they could do is throw me in jail or have me killed, both of which
would eventually leak out to the media, causing far more attention to crypto
and crypto usage than anything.  (Now I'm under no illusions of being an
important person, no ego trip for me, but I figure that if some snot nosed
pirate kid gets his face all over the news  for something idiotic like
running a pirate ftp site, just imagine how much noise will be generated by
the media when they hear that a cypherpunk was jailed for crypts...)

 
>   I will continue to do my part to try to influence the running of this
>   country.  I am not kicking back with a beer and cigar and saying that
>   we can do nothing and I hope it all works out.  We must run our own
>   country or our country will run us.

Absolutely.  Let those who fear the NSA, FBI, ??? hide if they like, but
there's no need to fear the spooks.  I'd bet some of them are even sympathetic
to having free crypto without key surrender.  Besides those who hide can
infact also be productive through anon remailers.  It's time to make some
noise and wake up everyone we can into killing clipper.
 
>   Good luck to all and no ill will.  (This list is too emotional sometimes
>   due to the topics covered.  They are beliefs and not opinions and a
>   belief can not be changed by another person like an opinion can.)

Sure, but that's why this is not a moderated list.  Anarchy does have its
advantages and also its disadvantages.  I'd like to do with less flame wars
on here, or at least have'em taken off the list...  But that's my personal
belief. :-)

Fight, fight, fight.
encrypt, encrypt, encrypt...
die clipper, die, die, die!




