From: dmandl@panix.com (David Mandl)
Date: Sun, 3 Jul 94 17:20:04 PDT
To: rarachel@prism.poly.edu (Arsen Ray Arachelian)
Subject: Re: PC Expo summary!!
Message-ID: <199407040019.AA27737@panix.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


At 10:26 AM 7/3/94 -0700, Timothy C. May wrote:
>
>About the "Copyright Cypherpunks" blurb:
>
>Had that been an interview I gave, I'd've been pissed off to see
>someone else attach the "Copyright Cypherpunks" blurb on my words.
>Even with my permission (and I assume Dave Mandl and Perry Metzger
>were asked for permission), attaching the words "Copyright
>Cypherpunks" is misleading: Cypherpunks are not an organized group.
>Issuing things in their name creates a misleading impression....and
>might, very unlikely though it is, create some kind of legal pressures
>on us. (An advantage to our disorganization is that governments can't
>find anyone to prosecute for the crimes of the "group.")

Just for the record: I discussed the transcript with RAR (though I didn't
see it) before he posted it.  I made it clear that anything he did with it
was OK with me.  The "copyright" issue is funny: Personally, I generally
anti-copyright things like that.  I didn't even notice the "copyright" when
I quickly skimmed the transcript (which is all I've had time to do--just
checking to see whether I'd made any obviously bone-headed statements).  I
assume it was meant kind of tongue-in-cheek, and nothing more; I agree that
it might call undue attention to the group and piss off list members who
don't want that transcript representing them.  That's perfectly reasonable.
Again, far as I'm concerned, I'd rather the "c" word just didn't appear.

Yeah, it may not be the best piece to distribute to the general public
since, as Perry pointed out, this was specifically an anarchist talk.  The
audience consisted mainly of people who already consider themselves
anarchists and would therefore be interested in these new developments from
that perspective.  Don't know how much sense it makes to people who don't
accept that to begin with.  Personally, I usually don't shy away from using
blatantly political language when I think it's necessary or appropriate,
regardless of the audience (on my radio show, for example), but I can see
how people might think it's counter-productive here.

As far as distribution goes, I'm glad it was posted to the list, at least.
Beyond that, anything that's OK with Perry is OK with me.  But there's no
reason that all list members should be blamed for that talk.  It was just
me and Perry, speaking for ourselves.

One more thing: If anyone were to _charge_ anything for copies of that
transcript beyond a reasonable "handling" fee, I'd be REALLY mad.  That
doesn't include Perry, of course, but I doubt that he's considering making
his fortune off that anyway.

   --Dave.

--
Dave Mandl
dmandl@panix.com






