From: VACCINIA@UNCVX1.OIT.UNC.EDU
Date: Sat, 12 Mar 94 18:00:55 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Clipper Cracks Appear
Message-ID: <01H9WCYCG136001758@UNCVX1.OIT.UNC.EDU>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

Seeing as it is politics week here at cpunks, I have found some interesting  
comments from our friends at whitehouse.gov. Commentary by John Carey in 
BusinessWeek Magazine (Big Brother Could Hobble High Tech, 3/24/94 pg. 37) 
states that: 
   So why is the Whitehouse pushing the retrograde notions? One reason is the 
Clintonites fear of appearing soft on crime and terrorism. "No one wants the
head of the FBI walking around saying: 'I don't have the tools to do my job'"
says Bellsouth's Markey.
   Things aren't entirely bleak. The administration, taken aback by vehement 
opposition from industry, congress and civil libertarians, is suggesting 
it may back off. "People are willing to work things out" says White House  
Staff secretary John D. Podesta, who is involved in technology issues. FBI
director Freeh says he's willing to accept higher hurdles to get court 
appointed surveilence. And there are tantalizing hints that the white house
is reconsidering its hard line on the clipper chip. 
<end> 

Seems that we are having an effect and cracks are starting to leak compromise 
from the Gov't. This is, however, just the beginning. A ploy used successfully 
by many groups (New York city's transit authority are masters at this) is to 
put forth an outrageous proposal, such as clipper etc. Then they soften the 
demands so that the opponent becomes disarmed, allowing that which the Gov't 
had intended to pass all along to go through as a compromise.

This cannot be allowed. Time to step up the attack a notch. Write the  
whitehouse and ask them if they want to go down in history as the presidency
that ushered in the era of Big Brother. I know Bill won't read it but someone 
has to. Keep on your congresscritters (I like that word) and put stuff in 
your local paper. Arm the populace. Lastly, I think many of you are giving
this countries people less credit than they deserve. Many simple men and women
founded this country. Try not to be so pompous.

Scott G. Morham             !The First, 
Vaccinia@uncvx1.oit.unc.edu !           Second
PGP Public Keys by Request  !                  and Third Levels
                            !        of Information Storage and Retrieval
                            !DNA,                       
                            !     Biological Neural Nets,
                            !                             Cyberspace

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.3a

iQCVAgUBLYJyUz2paOMjHHAhAQEbCgP/XobypXWta9OBbOAXePNWY7zznS6HHnxS
4fb7MWKlSjRxe283D2oWV0PnNttMLfAcEOknWT8l9/Z8Ef/RUNMo2vRENToE65If
oVoUh/lne+PgVpiyT8+oXc8QSFe+8qWJBNL6L1T5YMpghDYYX7bpCn07dCsUQSIb
gFItcKbPp8o=
=4HsY
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----




