From: rjc@gnu.ai.mit.edu (Ray)
Date: Thu, 21 Jul 94 00:08:11 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: was an accurate description of movie...
Message-ID: <9407210708.AA15380@geech.gnu.ai.mit.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain




   Well, this is my last post in this thread since it is becoming
quickly obvious that I may not be able to convince you and there
isn't much relevance to cypherpunks except the "wiretap propaganda"
of the movie, but you say that the original poster's "review" of the movie 
was an accurate description.  If that is so, I challenge you to find the
so-called "blow job" scene in this movie. I also challenge you to find
the scene proving Omega had a "blanket order" to wiretap. Tom Arnold
tells Arnie's character atleast twice that what he is doing (wiretapping
his wife) is *illegal*. Secondly, the movie does not show that SIGINT
was needed to stop the nuclear terrorists. It was HUMINT and the
breakin in the beginning of the movie that was used to gather the
intelligence neccessary. The entire movie was a comedy without a serious
bone in it and I certainly don't think it was intended as pro-government
wiretap.

   Finally, there is the subtle implication that making Arabs the enemy 
was a racist intention. There are a plethora of reasons why this was
done other than racism. For 40 years, the enemy in our movies and
culture was the USSR. Now that the USSR is gone, the only new enemies for
Hollywood are either Columbian drug lords, corporations, or Islamic
fundamentalists. It's not because they are Arabs, but because
the middle east is the current hotbed of conflict, and Arab funded
terrorists can and do plant bombs around the world. (one exploded
the other day in South America) The PC crowd has a habit of jumping
to conclusions before examining the facts. (did you know that
the last four disney movies were racist pro-nazi propaganda?
Check out the old threads in rec.arts.movies and rec.arts.animation.
Or look at the hoopla over Basic Instinct)

   All I can say to people is go to the movie and judge for yourself.
Just remember that Arnie is a libertarian leaning Republican (one of
the few in Hollywood) and that James Cameron is known for making
movies which are decidedly pro-women with characters like Ripley and
Sarah Connor.







