From: sameer <sameer@c2.org>
Date: Mon, 13 Jun 94 23:19:23 PDT
To: nexus-berkeley@c2.org
Subject: The NEXUS-Berkeley is now on-line
Message-ID: <199406140615.XAA16102@infinity.c2.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


[Note: you haven't been subscribed to nexus-berkeley@c2.org without
your permission.. you're on a list that this message has been Bcc`d
to, if you are not subbed to nexus-berkeley@c2.org]

	-- Community ConneXion: The NEXUS-Berkeley is now on-line --

-- Please distribute widely.

	After many months of planning, thinking, frustration, and hard
work, Community ConneXion: The NEXUS-Berkeley is now on-line and ready
to begin its work.
	We've been thinking and dreaming about this for the past two
years. Finally we've made it into a reality.

	Community ConneXion (c2, c^2, or c-squared) has been founded
in order to build up a strong community in the internet both locally
and globally. We are linked into the worldwide NEXUS-Gaia movement
which is building up a worldwide community of like-minded
network-oriented individuals.

	We've realized that the internet is not about the protocols
nor the universities nor the corporations nor the politics which form
the basic infrastructure. All these things are merely the
facilitators, the parts which come together to produce the whole; the
internet is about people communicating and making connections with
each other-- forming the social infrastructure.
	We've appeared in order to facilitate these connections.

	We've setup shop here in the SF Bay Area and we will integrate
virtuality and reality. It is possible for virtual communities to
merge into, supplement, and sometimes even create "real"
flesh communities.

	In order to build up this community we've put some computers
on the internet and have started offering services. These are quality
services provided at a low cost, with an emphasis on community
involvement. We emphasize privacy because there can be no strong
community where people fear their neighbors. By allowing people to
selective reveal themselves, we make easier for them to break down the
walls of prejudice which come between people in social interactions.

	We're offering mailboxes, shell accounts, anonymous remailing
services, ftp space, domain names, mail exchanging, strong
psuedonymous identities, and more as time goes on.
	We're building up a barter-coupon system so that volunteers
who help our community can earn credits to use to buy more services
from our system or, as the NEXUS-Gaia project grows, from Nexi around
the world. The barter-coupon system is implemented using a secure and
private anonymous digital cash scheme.
	We're asking for help from people to build our community. It
can't be done with only a few people. Everyone involved can help out
to build the system. A community is a group effort. As we build the
community we improve our lives.

	For more information and to sign up, use your favorite
World-Wide-Web browser to look at http://www.c2.org or, if you don't
have access to a WWW browser, telnet to c2.org and login as
"guest". Most services are offered with an initial two week free trial
period.
	In order to subscribe to our mailing list, send the message
"subscribe nexus-berkeley" to majordomo@c2.org. (From a UNIX prompt:
"echo subscribe nexus-berkeley | mail majordomo@c2.org") If you have
any questions, send mail to info@c2.org.

-sameer
Community ConneXion: The NEXUS-Berkeley
Voice: 510-841-2014 (not yet active)
Pager: 510-321-1014
Email: info@c2.org




