From: qwerty-remailer@netcom.com
Date: Mon, 14 Feb 94 13:51:31 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Ccnet. Anonymous internet provider?
Message-ID: <199402142147.NAA15480@mail.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Forward from comp.org.eff.talk:

Netcom would loose alot of customers if its libertarian counterpart became
available....

 -=Xenon=-

comp.org.eff.talk #26742 (0 + 1 more)                                      [1]
From: allisat@r-node.io.org (Allisat)
[1] ccnet anonymous service
Date: Mon Feb 14 10:34:24 EST 1994
Organization: allisat@io.org
Lines: 95
Distribution: inet




ccnetccnetccnetccnetccnetccnetccnetccnetccnetccnetccnet



        common carrier network



        a Mac GUI on-line system serving the metro Toronto
        community  with an anonymous service and uncensored
        E-mail gateways.

        ccnet  anonymous... (416) 588-1483
        requires a Mac System 6.0+
        & free FC Client software

        User ID : anonymous

        Password : anonymous

        Hours of Operation 00:00 - 08:00 EST



ccnetccnetccnetccnetccnetccnetccnetccnetccnetccnetccnet



         Our private lives and personal communications are
         increasingly being monitored and controlled by
         corporate and government agencies. Individual
         freedom of expression will soon mean nothing
         unless we provide ourselves with forums which
         guarantee and safeguard our inallienable civil rights.

          ccnet anonymous is such a place. Here you will find
          freedom to write anything. Here you have anonimity
          to end the fear of being persecuted or prosecuted for
          your thoughts, opinions and ideas. If  we don't oppose
          the unending infringement of our rights they will
          simply not exist in futureure.

         The choice is ours...


ccnetccnetccnetccnetccnetccnetccnetccnetccnetccnetccnet


                     ccnet  electronic  post  guidelines



                     ccnet's volunteer administrators do not edit messages
                     for content and take no responsibility for any messages
                     posted on-line. Individuals connecting to ccnet do so
                     voluntarily and at their own risk. Parental guidance
                     is advised. ccnet is not responsible for the titles
                     and content of the messages which may be uploaded.
                     ccnet does not edit remove messages for contents. The
                     following guidelines have been established only in order
                     to facilitate the efficient distribution and storage of
                     messages not to interfere with, alter, determine or
                     censor the flow of messaging

                    1.  Messages posted to ccnet must be 18
                        Kilobytes or under in size.

                    2.  All attachments to messages posted to
                        ccnet must be PGP encrypted and
                        compressed.

                    3.  Messages which are over 18 K or
                        attachments which are unencrypted or
                        uncompressed will not be accepted for
                        distribution and removed after posting
                        notice to  "deletions".



ccnetccnetccnetccnetccnetccnetccnetccnetccnetccnetccnet



                    for information either log in directly
                    and send a message to "administrator"
                    or reply to "allisat@io.org"


ccnetccnetccnetccnetccnetccnetccnetccnetccnetccnetccnet




