From: Blanc Weber <blancw@microsoft.com>
Date: Fri, 1 Jul 94 14:17:04 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: RE: Illegal Acts & Crypto
Message-ID: <9407012018.AA06258@netmail2.microsoft.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Some collected thoughts & misc. impressions:

Images of the psychology of crypto-users:
.  scurrying around like rats, hiding in the dark from regular 
interactions (regular = unconcerned)
.  fear of being onesself in the light, lacking courage
.  having a view of life which is not trusting, but suspicious and cynical
.  not identifying with the group, therefore keeping things from them, 
something akin to hoarding & not sharing (closed to the other members 
of the society, rather than open)
.  not necessarily "officially"  illegal, but generally not  really  
"one of us", as in hypocritical -  "with us, but not *of* us"

i.e., an individual, having separated themselves from the group from 
the use of an individuating tool/mechanism.

Encrypted Info (Positive):
.  being particular & specific, exclusive ("for your eyes only")
.  channelling the sent info to arrive at the intended destination only
.  limited to those involved, rather than diffused throughout to others 
for whom it is meaningless or without value; relevancy
.  the info being the product of one's Own (mind, purpose), therefore 
also being the prerogative of one's own judgement to determine its 
dissemination

Encrypted Info (Negative):
.  fear that it *will* involve others, having a negative, destructive 
potential to harm innocents
.  fear of not being able to control the developments from these and 
from its larger counterpart, organized "crime"
.  trying to beat them to the punch instead of having to deal with the 
after-effects
.  inadequacy of preparations for dealing with the element of surprise 
in cases of destructive, harmful influences:

Consequential Circumstance:
.  insufficient self-reliance, having to wait for the cavalry to come 
over the hill to save oneself.
.  having to maintain a relationship with the saviours (the managers & 
real owners of the general welfare) which maintains the individual in a 
dependent, subordinate, infantile state

Blanc




