From: wcs@anchor.ho.att.com (bill.stewart@pleasantonca.ncr.com +1-510-484-6204)
Date: Wed, 27 Jul 94 01:02:09 PDT
To: jgrasty@pts.mot.com
Subject: Re:  Encryption Algorithm for Pagers
Message-ID: <9407270800.AA25030@anchor.ho.att.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


> From: jgrasty@pts.mot.com (Joey Grasty X3697 P6611)
> I am looking for a simple encryption algorithm suitable for use in pagers.
[small, fast, low CPU needs, small keys]

> 5.  EXPORTABLE <-- yeah, I know

Exportable is easy - you just need to get a *license*.  Since you're
at Motorola, you're a big enough company to talk to NSA and have
some clue of having them approve it, as long as you give them an
algorithm simple enough for them to crack, or dependent on a 
key you give them, or whatever.

An alternative is to develop the code overseas and import it;
I don't know where you're doing your pager hardware, but this
does mean installing firmware overseas (not a major problem if you use
flash eproms, though still annoying.)  But you can use any algorithm
you want, and get to complain to the COmmerce Department about how
your US firm had to use overseas labor because of hostile export laws.

Also, exportable doesn't mean you import it to the country you want to
sell it in; Singapore may not be willing to let you import there something
that the NSA let you export from here, and China may not either.

As far as protocols go, you need to look at your threat model -
are you worried only about random eavesdropping, or do you want
something secure enough the NSA can't crack?  Ron Rivests's RC2/RC4
protocols are export-licenseable, as long as you limit them to
40-bit keys, and are willing to license the code from RSADSI.
It has the advantage that your data will probably be only readable by
professionals for the next few years, though I don't know if it's small
enough for your application; speed should be fine.

On the other hand, the basic wimpy Linear Feedback Shift Register random 
number stuff, while not highly secure, may be adequate for your needs;
use a mode like 32-bit randoms of which you use the bottom 8 bits
to XOR with your data, and start it with an initialization vector
you send with the message so the address message isn't always constant
for a given user.  

I guess I really hate to suggest putting wimpy encryption
in an important global system like a pager net, though it's better than
the current totally non-private version.  The big advantage you have
for current pager applications is that most messages are short,
max 80 or 256 characters with averages probably 20 characters,
so there's not much known plaintext (assuming you do the important
step of using a 1-character abbreviation for the pager system's
own phone number, which is otherwise transmitted on a large
percentage of pages...)  On the other hand, you *do* have the known 
plaintext of the pager address in each message, which is serious risk.

Actually, Blum-Blum-Shub looks like it should be a fairly small
program, but I don't know how long a number you need to use
to make it reasonably secure - if it's in the 128-bit range you're fine.
(it's probably less likely to be exportable than DES, I suppose :-).
It's slow, but you may be able to pre-compute.

Also, you can gain some efficiency by splitting up the pagers into
128/256 groups, send an unencrypted group-id as the first byte, and 
only decode if that matches.  That means you don't need to watch most 
of the messages that go by, and have extra slack time to decode the messages
in your buffer that may be meant for you while ignoring the rest; this 
does imply that the transmitter would queue up messages so that
messages from the same group don't go out within N messages of each other.

			Bill




