From: Stanton McCandlish <mech@eff.org>
Date: Thu, 3 Mar 94 15:33:00 PST
To: comp-org-eff-talk@cs.utexas.edu (eff.talk)
Subject: Job Opening: EFF Seeking Executive Director
Message-ID: <199403032331.SAA25304@eff.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Position Announcement

Executive Director

THE ELECTRONIC FRONTIER FOUNDATION


Summary:

The Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF)  is seeking an inventive,
entrepreneurial, public service-oriented chief executive with a strong
background in operations. The Executive Director will expand the scope of
the Foundation's activities by developing diverse projects, and will build
organizational capacity by implementing sound management, fundraising and
membership programs.

The new Executive Director will work collaboratively with EFF's current
Executive Director, who is moving over to become the Director of Policy in
order to provide full time leadership to EFF's intensive and expanding
public policy activities.

EFF was started in 1990 by Mitchell Kapor, founder of Lotus Development
Corporation, and John Perry Barlow, an author and lecturer interested in
digital technology and society.   Both founders remain active in the
organization.

EFF identifies significant issues related to information and communication
technologies, and creates activities that seek to understand how they will
affect society, and change the way that people think, work and interact.
Current EFF activities focus on public policy, civil liberties, and public
awareness.

The new Executive Director will develop EFF projects which integrate the
current array of policy initiatives, and will be designed to study and add
value to the discourse around particular problems or ideas by bringing
together information, resources and individuals outside of EFF who are
already working in key areas.  Other activities will be intended to promote
strategic dialogue and education about specific issues, to encourage the
development of new tools and paradigms, or to promote action for social,
political, or economic change that expands EFF's current work related to:

-  information infrastructure;
-  the development and application of law;
-  evolution of new technology; and
-  protection of civil liberties.

In addition, new projects will may address topics such as:

-  changes in social fabric and the meaning of community;
-  opportunities and effects on commerce/economics; and
-  international issues.

Activities may include conducting research, creating forums to encourage
discourse, inventing technical solutions, framing and reframing issues,
convening working groups, promoting education and public awareness,
persuading, organizing, lobbying and advocating, coalition building,
dissemination and publications.


About the Electronic Frontier Foundation:

Programs

EFF's current programs are designed to explore how civil liberties and the
practices of democracy are affected in the unique domain created when
individuals use electronic media to communicate.  EFF has been involved in
public interest litigation, providing on-line legal information for
computer users, electronic conferencing and broad public education through
print and electronic publications and communications activities.  EFF has
led the public debate on communications privacy, and supports efforts to
force broad access to government information.  As advancements in
technology have stimulated investment in a national information and
communications infrastructure, EFF has devised and promoted policy
proposals, formed public interest/private sector coalitions, encouraged
legislative reform, and organized grass roots support to ensure that the
emerging national network is affordable, democratic and widely accessible.
EFF also has explored issues related to privatization of the Internet, and
information privacy.

Management and Administration

EFF presently has 8 full time professional staff, and a ten member Board of
Directors who meet quarterly.  Board members at EFF are committed, active
and visible.

EFF is a membership organization with a current enrollment of several
thousand.  The membership program has potential for involving thousands of
technology users who are concerned about the future of communications
networks, and want to participate in influencing the evolution of the
networked world.  Membership will be an increasingly important component of
EFF's funding and advocacy base in coming years.

 In  1994, will have an annual budget of $1.6 million.  Funds come from
corporations, individual donors, grants, and membership.  An important goal
for the next few years will be to diversify EFF's funding base through a
variety of fundraising methods, including major donor programs, membership,
foundation grants, and earned income.

Responsibilities of the Executive Director:

o       Management and Administration:  The Executive Director sets the
tone for a vital and positive organizational culture at EFF, orchestrates
the activities of the staff, and ensures that EFF's strategic and
operational planning, fiscal practices, and daily administration run
smoothly and efficiently.

o       Resource Development:  EFF is in the process of developing and
expanding a comprehensive fundraising program  Over the short term, the
Executive Director will directly identify and secure funding from a variety
of sources, including individuals, corporations and foundations.  Over the
longer term, the Executive Director will be responsible for planning and
overseeing the implementation of a fundraising strategy that supports
current activities and lays the groundwork for expansion into project areas
defined by the Board and staff.

o       Membership Development and Member Relations: The Executive Director
will develop and oversee the implementation of an expansion plan to
increase EFF membership that integrates EFF's goals for fundraising, public
awareness, and programs, and will work with staff to define and maintain a
roster of member services and opportunities for activism.

o       Project Development and Management:  The Executive Director will
work with EFF's Board and staff to define, fund, and launch projects, then
will oversee their smooth operations.

o       Board Development and Relations:  The Executive Director serves as
an ex officio member of the Board of Directors, and is responsible for
leveraging the resources represented by the Board and other advisors to
benefit the organization.

o       External Relations and Public Awareness  The Executive Director
will be in charge of planning and delegating responsibility for a cohesive
program for external communications and public awareness that advances EFF
through media placement, speaking engagements, and publications.

Qualifications:

The Executive Director must be skilled at organization building, program
development and staff management, with at least ten years of proven
experience in a responsible senior executive position.  Candidates should
enjoy seeing through a range of projects from initial vision through
planning to implementation, and attending to the details of staffing,
funding, project oversight and evaluation. Qualifications must include a
track record of successful, creative fundraising and revenue development.

This position is suitable for someone who enjoys engaging in lively
exchange of ideas, but who also leans towards the pragmatic application of
ideas to problem solving.  Applicants will be asked to demonstrate an
interest in EFF's work in law and public policy, civil liberties, computer
and communications technology, opportunities for commercial development,
and social evolution.   Candidates must be able to represent the
organization in public, so excellent communication skills--including the
ability to write and speak persuasively to a range of audiences--are
essential.

This position requires a flexible and organized individual with advanced
interpersonal skills, high energy level, problem solving approach, and the
ability to generate and sustain multiple activities.  Applicants should
enjoy and be effective at negotiating collaborations and partnerships with
other organizations and individuals.  Diplomacy, political sensibility, and
a sense of humor would come in handy.

Candidates may come from a variety of backgrounds, including, but not
limited to business management, academia, a research or policy institute, a
senior fundraising position, public interest leadership, philanthropy, a
think tank, or a research and development setting.  We  encourage
individuals with eclectic backgrounds combined with a track record of
accomplishments to apply.  Experience managing a nonprofit organization is
high capital, particularly if it includes development of  effective
fundraising programs, partnerships, and broad-based membership.  Experience
with budgeting and financial accountability is required.

Because much of EFF's work is conducted electronically, candidates must
have direct experience using electronic networks (should have a current
email address), and should be aggressive in learning about and using
computers and other forms of electronic communication.

Compensation:

Salary in the low six figures, commensurate with experience.
Full benefits include health, disability and life insurance, pension, and
vacation.


How to apply:

This position is located in Washington, DC.  Deadline for applications is
31 March 1994.  No phone calls please.

To apply, send complete vitae, a brief writing sample and a compelling
cover letter including salary history, to our executive recruiter:

Lisa A. Breit & Associates
54 Rich Valley Road
Wayland, Massachusetts 01778
Fax:    508-358-9110

You are encouraged to apply by email (ASCII only please).  Address to:
search@eff.org

The Electronic Frontier Foundation is an equal opportunity employer.



