From: nobody@ds1.wu-wien.ac.at
Date: Thu, 21 Jul 94 16:33:00 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Who Detweiler is *really* posting as
Message-ID: <9407212332.AA00201@ds1.wu-wien.ac.at>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Cyphertentacles:

Maybe I missed something here, but I thought what the original writer
was implying was that Perry Metzger may indeed be a real human being,
but that he was actually working as a *double agent* for Detweiler.
That is one of the connotations of the word "tentacle" that Detweiler
loves to toss around. 

I think there is a plausible case for this. Remember, just because
you see mail coming from perry@imsi.com doesn't mean that the
"Perry Metzger" you met in person actually wrote it. It is possible
that Detweiler and Metzger are both posting from that account. In
fact, looking at the text styles, it seems reasonable. Sometimes
Perry writes some very interesting posts related to cryptography,
stock trading and other subjects. But in other cases he just rants
in a few terse lines, particularly when Detweiler is the subject. 

Maybe the "orders" to Perry from Detweiler are to "improve your 
reputation on the list as much as possible". In the meantime, Detweiler
is occasionally using the same account to instigate dissension. 
Haven't you ever noticed an eerie, strange, sort of Jekyll-and-Hyde
personality to what comes out of that account at times? Almost
to the point of wondering if the same knowledgable person would 
spew such fervent vitriol?

But anyway, I think all of this is plausible enough that Perry should
broadcast a denial to everyone on the list again, just to assuage
anyone's unconscious fears of secret conspiracies all around them
in cyberspace.

Heh. These conspiracy theories are kind of fun to imagine. Maybe on the 
other hand EVERYONE on this list is a tentacle of Detweiler, and YOU are 
the only one who doesn't realize it.

Hee, hee.

By the way, I found some records of another person posting from Denver
at Netcom that seems to match Detweiler's patterns. It's pretty obvious
when you look at the records. I'll let you figure it out for the fun
of it. <g>

When Detweiler is dead, you won't be seeing me at his funeral. Although
you might catch me dancing on his grave.





