From: gnu
Date: Wed, 30 Nov 94 03:09:49 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: The Market for Crypto--In Real Life
In-Reply-To: <199411291918.LAA07191@comsec.com>
Message-ID: <9411301109.AA21847@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Tim May ranted:
> In any case, the notion that a bunch of us--students, dabblers,
> activists, engineers, etc.--can somehow create a finished product, or
> a company, as some folks periodically try to argue for ("Let's do a
> company!"), is not too likely.

As Heinlein said, babies aren't too likely either.

I'm immediately looking for a contractor to work on documentation for
Cygnus Network Security, the Kerberos software.  Our goal is to create
a finished product.  A bunch of us dabblers already created the
company and got it to make money.  If you're interested, send me mail
at gnu@cygnus.com and show me why you'd be good at it and how soon
you're available.  The writer who started the job ended up unable to
finish it for personal reasons.  It'll help a lot to be in Boston or
SF Bay Area since our Kerberos engineers who can explain what to write
are there.

I'm also "likely to" eventually need another crypto programmer,
contract or full time.  For this we don't have a burning need yet, but
talk to me if you might come available, and stay in touch.  General
programming wizardry on some platform is the basic requirement.  Not
mastery, not skill, not a degree.  Wizardry -- exceptional skill.
Interest and expertise in crypto technology, markets, and politics are
desirable.  Interest and expertise in the guts of compiler tools is
also desirable, since that's our other main business, and people swap
back and forth at times.

Yes, it's a job posting.  I just couldn't resist this followup to Tim.
And I suspect some of you might actually care to read job postings for
crypto jobs here; I would.

	John
--
John Gilmore                gnu@toad.com  --  gnu@cygnus.com  --  gnu@eff.org
Can we talk in private?      			   Chairman, Crypto Committee
Not if the FBI and NSA have their way.   Electronic Frontier Foundation Board
Let's sell free crypto software.     Product Manager, Cygnus Network Security




