From: rjc@gnu.ai.mit.edu (Ray)
Date: Sat, 12 Feb 94 21:42:57 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: How to easily increase remailer traffic
Message-ID: <9402130537.AA03911@geech.gnu.ai.mit.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



  Recently I was reading a message about how fast ftp porno sites
go down because as soon as they are announced they undergo constant
heavy use.

  Given an anonymous remailer network, there is no need for sending
random noise messages to keep a constant traffic. Simply set up a double 
blind porno e-mail archive site. The site address itself would be a 
self-addressed pgp remailer block, and all return addresses would be SASE 
too. Not only would this provide a constant background of data flowing to 
hide important messages in, but it would also incentivize thousands of
people on the net into using pgp via e-mail daily and would educate
them about crypto. The double blind mechanism would keep the site
safe from direct attack, and would give many people more confidence
about requesting such files (since they could be encrypted on
delivery) As more sites pop up using the double blind mechanism to
avoid discovery, more and more remailers would be added to the network.
People would be encouraged to set up simple light-weight remailers
in their .forward once they figure out that there is safety in
large numbers.

  Pornography is usually the first media to use new technology.
Whether it's modems, networks, bbs, minitel, irc, muds, cd-roms, 
independent phone service, desktop video, desktop publishing, video
games, you name it. Let's harness its power to found cryptoanarchy
in cyberspace.

  All that's needed is a uucp setup, about 20 megs for jpeg picture
archive or story archive, pgp, and some slightly more powerful remailer
software. This is guaranteed to generate a steady stream of remailer
usage (possibly too much)

-Ray (unsubscribed still)

-- Ray Cromwell        |    Engineering is the implementation of science;    --
-- rjc@gnu.ai.mit.edu  |       politics is the implementation of faith.      --




