From: blancw@pylon.com
Date: Mon, 29 Aug 94 00:31:51 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: The Effects of Thinking & Writing
Message-ID: <199408290732.AAA20748@deepthought.pylon.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Responding to msg by nobody@ds1.wu-wien.ac.at 

>I think that writing and thinking is the only thing any 
>of us can do  that will have impact.  The only coding 
>effort I can see paying off is  helping to make PGP 
>better.  Maybe that's what I'll do.
>
>Thoth

....................................................

I have read in public & private, comments about cypherpunks and 
how there is really little to be expected from the list in 
terms of practical solutions to governments, surveillance, the 
new world order, etc.

It sets me to reflect upon what people could really expect to 
get from a mailing list;  why it is that there is 
disillusionment about what the members seek to accomplish, such 
that there are discrediting comments about what will really 
happen as a result of its existence:  what is it that leads 
some people to expect that reading other people's mail is going 
to change the NSA's mind, or the world at large?  Is it because 
"real" cypherpunks write code?  Perhaps the expectations for 
the range of the efficacy of coding are a little too high in 
some people's estimation?  (Just because criminals & the NSA 
think it's important, doesn't mean e-v-e-r-y-b-o-d-y else will 
think so, too.  Okay, so you're going to disagree with me about 
that.  So flame me.)

I must reflect upon the fact that this is, after all, just a 
list -  just reading material and interchange from anyone who 
feels sufficiently motivated to reply or comment or just send 
in their .02 cents.  Perhaps someone's intellect could supply 
imaginative inspiration, perhaps their knowledge could provide 
missing pieces to a puzzle, perhaps their style could bolster a 
failing courage towards autonomous thinking & therefore acting. 
 What could really be realized from a voluntary gathering of 
various & sundry assorted strangers who subscribe for their own 
self-decided particular reasons, which they don't divulge to 
all, to get what they will and contribute what they may at such 
time as they feel sufficiently motivated to do so?

Is this the Cypherpunk Savings & Loan Division?  or did I reach 
the wrong department.


Blanc





