From: nym@netcom.com (Sue D. Nym)
Date: Mon, 18 Jul 94 09:58:19 PDT
To: perry@imsi.com
Subject: Re: Expose on North's Arm Smuggling
In-Reply-To: <9407181609.AA01261@snark.imsi.com>
Message-ID: <199407181657.JAA23135@netcom14.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



"Evidence"? Because I post from the same city as this "Detweiller"
net.kook I am guilty by association?

I did NOT make up people's supportive mail. I'll send you a
copy if you don't believe me, if you promise to keep it private.

I think you must have something against women. In fact, I think
the whole list is pretty unbalanced. I haven't seen any other
women except Sandy post. If you are trying to create an atmostphere
of fear and intimidation, let me say that you have succeeded!

Are you involved with the moderation with the list? What is your
authority to tell me to get lost? I am certainly thinking of giving
up on you guys. I have posted two messages I thought were similar
to everyone's interests here. But all I get is a lot of serious
antagonism.

Look, I'll level with you. The name *is* a pseudonym. But it's to
keep jerks like you from harassing and stalking me in the real world.
It seems that people that are jerks in the real world can be even
more insane in cyberspace. I've had some bad experiences in the
past when I used my real name.

I don't think I will have much to say to you in the future. And I may
stick around just to spite you. It's a free country, last time I
checked (contrary to what all you Orwellian-thought-police-paranoids think) 
and I'm free to choose.

This is a nasty message, but you are being nasty to me for no reason. 
I'm going to use you as a punching bag for everyone that is bashing me
for nothing. When/if you apologize, I will.

Have you ever looked at a newborn child? Do you think, "here is another
perverted arm of humanity waiting to cause untold misery"? Or do you think,
"what a joyous event, a clean slate, an innocent soul come to the world
with undreamed-of possibilities"?

If you believe in reincarnation (as I do) you will understand that the
earthly realm is a place where souls are being recycled. And a baby is
born without a tatoo of all their previous crimes against humanity 
for a *reason*-- so that the Perry Metzgers of the world give them a 
chance anyway. 

So think of my new "appearance" into this forum that like a new baby. A
chance for a new beginning, a clean slate. We are all fellow passengers
on this planet earth. Let us work together in harmony and find our
common goals, and resolve peacefully our differences.

There are a lot of neat parallels between reincarnation and email addresses.
When someone gets a new email address it is like their spirit has found
a new vehicle for expression free of prior "reputation baggage"
(identical to the process it goes through of "wearing" a body). In
weird cases where people seem to be "possessed" by different spirits,
or people are "channeling" them, it is just a case (or "manifestation)
of the lack of an entirely one-to-one correspondence between spirits
and bodies, just as there is not a one-to-one correspondence between
people and email addresses.

I find it a refreshing atmosphere, full of possibilities. I thought
some cypherpunks were interested in this kind of thing. I remember
seeing someone's flashing signature about "digital pseudonyms" or 
something like that. Isn't that the idea? It is all just another
variation of the scenes that play out in this earth drama. Whether
the aspect of this "fluidity of identity" is used for good or evil
is based on the application.

I foresee a new harmony between technology and spirituality in the
near future in which these ideas won't sound so bizarre. But I will not
be depressed by anyone's attacks of my ideas. I have long ago learned
how to "turn the other cheek" over ideas. In fact, it is easy in
cyberspace.

I hope you can get over your obvious intolerance, Perry.

--nym@netcom.com




