From: hughes@ah.com (Eric Hughes)
Date: Fri, 5 Aug 94 20:37:35 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Remailer ideas
In-Reply-To: <3778@aiki.demon.co.uk>
Message-ID: <9408051709.AA14763@ah.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Jim Dixon analogizes between the Internet and remailer networks.  The
analogy has some merit, but yet breaks down badly with the very first
point:

      *	all packets should be acknowledged

This is not the way the Internet works.  IP, Internet Protocol, is
unreliable.  TCP, the reliable stream protocol, does not acknowledge
individual packets but rather advancement along a sequence.  The
lesson is that reliable delivery should be built on top of unreliable
delivery.

Here the analogy breaks down on technical grounds.  With TCP, the
destination knows the source, yet in a remailer network this may not
be the case.  A good first cut, though, would be to forgo reliable
delivery for remailer-created pseudonymity and work out a reliability
mechanism for regular correspondents.  In this case the source _is_
known, it's just that it's not shown on the outside of the message.

Further, in email, there's currently no notion of a connection.  Email
message are much more like datagrams than bit streams.  In order to do
reliable delivery, there would have to be persistent state information
on each side of the communication.  If I send a message for the first
time to a party and there's no reply, I cannot conclude whether the
message was not delivered or whether the message was delivered and not
answered.

Connection-oriented email would be much more complicated than the
current systems.  It is, perhaps, time for email to become more
complex.  

      *	messages should be broken down into packets which are routed
	   independently

Length quantization is necessary for security in the face of total
network monitoring.  Multiple quanta may be warranted in the case of
high volume, which is certainly not the case right now.  So this point
holds.

      *	users should communicate with trusted gateways

This point is only half true, because the analogy only subsumes one
kind of trust.  For remailers there is both trust in delivery and
trust in silence, the destruction of the message and information about
it.  On the Internet the only trust required is delivery; there is not
a desiderata in the design (although it's certainly in some people's
minds) that packet monitoring _not_ be possible.

      *	the gateways should frequently exchange routing information

Again, this works for trust in delivery but not for trust in silence.

Eric




