From: "Gary Jeffers" <CCGARY@MIZZOU1.missouri.edu>
Date: Tue, 31 May 94 12:30:29 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Cypherpunks' Electronic Book2
Message-ID: <9405311930.AA10172@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


       CYPHERPUNKS' ELECTRONIC BOOK (CEB) 2

Dear Cypherpunks,

   Well, my evil plan to volunteer Eric Hughes's time  for my
Cypherpunk's Electronic Book has not worked out as well as I had hoped
but somewhat as I had expected. Eric, it is crucial to the project that
you give out permissions for some people to change Majordomo, possibly
make a few changes in the Cypherpunks' mailing list, & possibly appoint
a few people as referees. I realize that you are quite busy & that your
time is valuable but it looks like there will be other people to handle
the technical details. I think CEB can progress with a very small amount
of your time. I think that you will agree that CEB is quite valuable &
I think that you will be proud of the results.
   Robert Hayden has volunteered to make the changes in Majordomo & do
the file handling work. This is the most crucial technical work to be
done. This will setup the actual mechanics of the CEB. Robert says that
this is all he has time for. Well, this is a lot! With Eric's per-
missions, Robert's technical work, a description of how to contribute
to CEB & possibly some writers' contributions to seed to CEB, I think
CEB will generate a life of its own.
   Once CEB gets going, most of the work will be done by the referees
& writers. The contributors will be doing just what they like to be
doing anyway. The most difficult part will be in just getting it
started. I think that, once it gets going, everybody will want to get
on the bandwagon.
   Robert Lau has volunteered to donate his Cypherpunks' archives. Due
to the nature of the CEB, we will not need them early on. However, they
may be very valuable to researchers working on projects. Later, people
looking for a project for CEB may want to comb them for projects.
  Thanks to the C'punks who have volunteered to help with the project.
Eric, would it be alright for Robert Hayden to make some changes to
Majordomo & perhaps the mailing list? I don't know what all he will need
to do. Robert Hayden will probably need to talk to you. Also, once Mr.
Hayden has started work, maybe others will volunteer to help him.
                                                   Yours Truly,
                                                   Gary Jeffers




