From: danisch@ira.uka.de (Hadmut Danisch)
Date: Fri, 11 Feb 94 05:40:29 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: No more "Nazis on the Nets"
Message-ID: <9402111332.AA11432@deathstar.iaks.ira.uka.de>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

Hi everyone,

we have to stop this discussion.  

I have more than 20 mails in my mailbox, everyone
very long, serious, interesting and waiting for response.
But I can't answer them all within reasonable time, I also
have to do my regular work.

Furthermore I have a lot of mails of people asking me to
stop this discussion "between two persons". Some don't see
that it has anything to do with cryptography. 

I don't share this oppinion, because if we talk about
communication, we also have to talk about the danger and
the restriction of communication. The german right-/left-wing
as well as the american Mafia are known to use modern
computer networks, cryptographical software and methods
of system security and access control. We can not close
the eyes and just don't care about what is done with the
tools we are contructing. 

Meanwhile I can somehow understand that there has to be
any form of export restriction if people constructing
such tools have so many problems with thinking about
possible forms of bad use of their tools.

And again I got confirmed what we find so often in so 
many cases: People love to talk and form a judgement
of Germany and don't even really know what they are talking
about. This is a never-ending problem of Germany. 

In this special case of Naziism you should be aware that
they found not only germany nazi computer networks. They 
found this network to be the international connection
to other country's nazis, especially Austria, Great
Britain and USA. Two of the german politicians asked
to forbid private mailbox systems and even modems.
Of course this is stupid, but perhaps your politicians
get the same idea. When I read the clipper proposals I
think they already had such an idea.

Hadmut


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.3a

iQCVAgUBLVuI3mc1jG5vDiNxAQGenwQAhruLOjvjbLuLGgnN+48gXneOtT3x0iV7
DIexTGAubZUCW8UCMy5/pOF1nGMgs5GMdZzUzy4TJGoAAsyuoLRTuVjVDqMjBIL1
9mIH/wNRxGj/55YjEWXylPM+PzSZwCerTbJs0Vo2YWwcMRbqd4a/+hb0ji6ul6iT
83Tby8FihjE=
=Uy5j
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----




