From: "Gary Jeffers" <CCGARY@MIZZOU1.missouri.edu>
Date: Thu, 17 Feb 94 13:05:27 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: STEALTH OCEANS
Message-ID: <9402172103.AA05967@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


note: This letter is composed of 2 different ideas: FIRST GREAT IDEA
& SECOND GREAT IDEA.

   Firstly, congratulations to the cypherpunks that are realizing that
strong civilian crypt needs "stealth". For some time I have thought
that a crypt file with a crypt header on it was like saying "yes, I
am in contempt for refusing to give a password" or "yes, I do require
surveillance". A crypt file should look like random bits.

   The only problem is that files of random bits are not usual & might
look a little suspicious. The cypherpunk needs to be able to deny
having crypt files even if he is found with random bite files.

   So how do we do that? Then an idea came into my head! Why not make
random bit files rather popular? Then, we would be like stealth fish
swimming in stealth oceans. So, how do we make these files popular?

   Some may find the following ideas foolish. Others may find them
unethical. Still others may find them both foolish & unethical.


  1. Write a "wipe" program & put it in the public domain. The wipe
program uses md-5 to generate random numbers over the user file & then
delete the file. A very nice wipe program. However a bug is put into
the program: a random number generator is used to decide that in a
small number of cases, the new random number file is not deleted!
This would leave around a lot of random number files if the program
were to become popular.

  2. Modify existing programs to generate random number files on
occasion. Programs to be found on boards; loose diskettes; etc..

  3. Viruses that generate small numbers of random number files per
disk partition or diskette.

  4. send random files anonymously over the internet.

  5. think up some of your own.

note: in all the above, the file lengths should vary randomly & should
be well tuned to avoid extremes.

SECOND GREAT IDEA  (self extracting encrypt/decrypt programs)
 (when an encryption program is itself an embarrassment.)

   A self extracting encrypt/decrypt program. That is,like, change
PGP so that it looks like a random number file. But with a few cycles
would start to unravel itself. Suggestion: 2 "random Number" files
that when XOR'ed yields PGP. Probably nothing quite this bare bones
& simple. Although something this simple could save your ass if your
interrogators were technically unsophisticated, lazy, short of time
or short of investigation funds. To do this very nicely would mean
some tricky programming & would make the reputation of the programmer/
cypherpunk who did it.

IMPORTANT NOTE: I am not a lawyer & do not know the law. In no case do
I advocate breaking any law. I see that great idea first may be of
questionable legal value. The cypherpunk is urged to consult with
local, state, & federal authorities before pursuing these suggestions.
Admittedly, that idea could also just be dumb & improper. Think about it.

 I heap big blessings on the heads of my fellow cypherpunks.

                                                Yours truly,
                                                Gary Jeffers




