From: usura@vox.hacktic.nl (Usura)
Date: Fri, 10 Jun 94 02:20:49 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: RE: Remailer Chaining Security?
Message-ID: <s39oNc1w165w@vox.hacktic.nl>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



nobody@shell.portal.com writes:

: What level of security is achieved by the practice of "chaining"
: messages through various "anonymous remailers"?  

To find out your "real" identity, those who want to find out need to
have cooperation of all remailer involved. If one link cannot/doesnot
cooperate the chain is broken and so your ID remains hidden.

: Do these servers not keeps logs by which a post could be traced back 
: through the chain to the source?  If there is a REAL level of security 
: afforded, then the question arises "how much is enough"?

My remailers keep no sendlogs, and they are out-side US jurisdiction. Only
anon@vox.hacktic.nl has a database to match the allocated ID to an email
adress. remail & remailer do not keep logs at all. 

My remailers also support PGP and changing Subjects, you can send a 
PGPencrypted message to VoX and it will be decypted, if the recipiant has
a PGPpubKEY in my KEYring [with matching adress] mail send to him/her will
also be encrypted using that KEY.

If you want more info send a msg to HELP@vox.hacktic.nl

But remember it is up to you to decide whether you trust the remail 
operator or not. Sending mail in a chain of remailers who support PGP
will give the following :

remailer 1 : recieves an ecnrypted message, the system decrypts and
             gives a R-R-To: remailer 2 + an "new" encrypted msg.
             Only remailer 1 could know the real ID of the sender
             but he doesnot know the contents of the remailed msg.
             
remailer 2 : receives an encrypted message from remailer 1, the system
             decrypts and gives a R-R-To: remailer 3 + an "new" encrpted
             message. Remailer 2 only could find out that the message came
             from remailer 1 the real ID an contents of the message is
             being kept secret for remailer 2.
             
remailer 3 : reciever an encrypted message from remailer 2, the system
             decrypts and gives an R-R-To: the recipiant and the decrypted
             message. Remailer 3 only could find out what the contents and
             the recipiant are, the originator will be kept hidden.
             
             
Note that the encrypted messages are "enveloped" in the previous encrypted
message. 

[The msg to rem 1 is encrypted and contains the encrypted mesg for rem 2,
 which does contain the encrypted message for rem 3] 
 
Regz,             
             
--
Exit! Stage Left.
Alex de Joode                                 <usura@vox.hacktic.nl>




