From: edgar@spectrx.saigon.com (Edgar W. Swank)
Date: Wed, 2 Feb 94 01:10:56 PST
To: Cypherpunks          <cypherpunks@toad.com>
Subject: Re: Remailer Tearline Conventins
Message-ID: <wo44gc6w165w@spectrx.saigon.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

Someone (not me) asked about remailer tearline conventions to
eliminate automatic sigs:

    Though this subject came up some months ago, I never noticed any
    final decision.

    Is there now an accepted tearline convention for the generic
    cypherpunks remailers?  The mail handler here and at most of my
    other accounts automagically adds the host address and/or my
    address to all outgoing mail, which
    is...well..._counterproductive_ when sending mail to a remailer.
    The extropia remailer by accepting encrypted messages avoids this
    problem, but most of the other remailers seem to have no
    provisions for excluding extraneous text and address footers.

    Was there ever a "8<----(cut here)" arrangement agreed upon and
    incorporated into the remailers?

I'm the one who brought this up "months ago" and the short answer to
your question is "no."

One remailer

    Hall Remailer     <nowhere@bsu-cs.bsu.edu>

added a "cut line" of

   --ignore--

[no indentation in actual use].  I tested this when Hall first
announced it and it seems to work.  You would be advised to test it
yourself before relying on it.  Unfortunately the Hall Remailer is one
of the remailers that does not support encryption.  AFIK, this "cut
line" code was never propagated to any other Cypherpunks remailers.

At the time I brought this up, the attitude of most remailer operators
(Chael Hall and Miron Cuperman notably excepted) was that anyone who
couldn't figure out how and remember to turn off their auto sig didn't
deserve any privacy.

I recommend that you always use the wimsey (extropia) remailer as the
first (or only) leg of a remailer chain.  It is also the only
Cypherpunks remailer outside the USA (it's in Canada) which will make
tracing msgs a little more difficult for USA authorities.

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.3a

iQCVAgUBLU5FJt4nNf3ah8DHAQECYQP/f2LDs7Tq1PfrH4PQBOR0Iu1XIrCDztZB
dVapPFSjfF2Y20ljWqHsMK7xjUpfLpaXluFogav9DpGgey/zrO48MJJf8gFBGsJA
7gsOUl3Yc3VDPWvWI18zN4MgYeeEfRoTXIToWSeiadJmiEMq5m0hqs1bjZwOmmSr
rewqGMxMUeI=
=U43w
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

--
edgar@spectrx.saigon.com (Edgar W. Swank)
SPECTROX SYSTEMS +1.408.252.1005  Cupertino, Ca





