From: rcain@netcom.com (Robert Cain)
Date: Wed, 16 Feb 94 09:05:15 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com (cypherpunks)
Subject: AT&T stopped talking to me
Message-ID: <199402161704.JAA16456@netcom9.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Cryptophiles,

I don't know if there is any signifigance to this or it is incompetence.
I was in discussion with a rep for AT&T about their VSELP part and
getting the firmware development software to add crypto to the part.
(Don't even need hardware, the simulator is supposed to be so good.)
This rep had put me in touch with the local AT&T marketing person
for the part in order to handle some questions he couldn't.  Things
were going along pretty well until the AT&T fellow asked me what
my application was.  I was queasy about answering that question and
rightfully so.  I felt a sudden change of attitude from the guy when I
told him it was to implement my voice crypto and I have gotten nowhere
with them since.  I asked for the complete datasheet for the part and
received instead the same two page summary I already had.  There is no
way one could design in this part with the info in that marketing blurb
so something else *must* exist.  I cannot get them to even return a call
any more.  I left a message on the men's phone mail detailing that I
was ready to purchase the development software and wanted to meet
briefly to discuss that and explain the real design information I need
for the part.  I have been unable to get either to return my calls.  In
my last conversation with the AT&T guy he was trying to discourage me,
telling me that to get any support for this firmware development
required some kind of market study showing that the application would
result in the sale of 100,000+ of the devices.  I told him that I saw
little problem with that number and anticipated potentially ten times
that quantity or more over the life of the product.  :-)

I dunno, maybe it is coincidence but it sure seems to me that AT&T's
willingness to sell to me and help support a product development
vanished at the point when I mentioned crypto.

Steve B., since you are with AT&T is there any policy that you know
about regarding sales of devices for use in crypto?


Peace,

Bob

-- 
Bob Cain    rcain@netcom.com   408-354-8021 H  415-966-9549 W (10 am to 7 pm)


           "I used to be different.  But now I'm the same."


--------------PGP 1.0 or 2.0 public key available on request.------------------



