From: j.hastings6@genie.geis.com
Date: Thu, 29 Sep 94 04:11:32 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Fortress/Little Bro
Message-ID: <199409291111.AA051537074@relay2.geis.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
 
FORTRESS remailers should be disguised in some way:
 
	"DBN announced solemnly that it was everyone's duty to turn in
all computers and radios to the authorities for the duration of the
Emergency. Not many were impressed by this pronouncement unless you
counted laughter. I'd hate to be on the side trying to confiscate
everything.
	That cactus might be a combination photovoltaic cell and radio
antenna with green chlorophyll-enriched paint. Or it might just be a
cactus. Maybe that flag pole is a hidden shortwave antenna. Should
we tear down our own flag? That car engine, vacuum cleaner, hospital
centrifuge, or those countless damned white-noise decoys might be
unauthorized spread-spectrum radio transmitters. Or not.
	The bitter end had come, but the Feds wouldnt back down..."
 
Another Little Brother problem:
 
	"Consumers wanted businesses to 'get it' concerning their
preferences, without any effort on their part. But they insisted on
absolute individual privacy. A method of scanning the face was
devised that could evaluate and report the emotional state of the
viewers, without disclosing the identity of any particular viewer,
via a blind-audit protocol. This compromise was accepted by most
broadcast receiver customers.
	It was not generally known that the biggest consumer of collective
emotional data was the Department of National Security. The data was
purchased under a number of marketing research company names, then
transmitted directly to DNS in real time, making it the most important
tool DNS had for "the manufacturing of consent."
	A Presidential speech was broadcast, and the sum of the viewer
reactions was received. The speech program was adaptive, so statements
evoking the most positive response were generated, if they fell within
the policy constraints set by the Directorate of the Department."
 
Excerpts from "Revolution Is My Hobby" by me.
 
Kent - j.hastings6@genie.geis.com
Ham packet AX.25: WA6ZFY @ WB6YMH.#SOCA.CA.USA.NA
 
 
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.3
 
iQCVAgUBLoo7/DQYUX1dU7vxAQHYlQP/Sq2eIcPOFzae5L+IFu/sKLc7ssGAE18T
bWuAIOOGVWwhT4GAgnxDnYiJjn2Azt9pCeTLpe4ppPQ88SS3hX9fkg4cNWF3rRd1
gKRn7w7cwBwPZhJuvHEMUno/KFsEizFYFzLSEISp4DETp2TWpkowh65RB/RRGFM+
RMiAR2s2bNw=
=VRH0
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----




