From: jpp@markv.com
Date: Fri, 4 Mar 94 02:13:16 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: reply-to feeds an anon pool, jpp=pr0duct=cypher
Message-ID: <9403040212.aa01433@hermix.markv.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


  I have built an 'easy anonymous reply' program.  You can now use
reply-to addresses of the form jpp=0x123456@markv.com, where 0x123456
is a public key id.  The obvious advantages are 'easy' reply-to's, no
stored return address of any kind, and automatic encryption.  The
obvious disadvantages are the need to scan through alt.test for
messages, that I have a list of all the 'bad' folks out there who want
anonymous addresses (though it is not clear how terible it is for me
to have a list of their public keys), and that I keep logs of the mail
messages.  My logs will be kept until I am sure the stuff works, and
then I will junk'em.  So encrypt, and use remailers if you need to --
I won't try to stop a government search of my disk.

  As a 'prop' to Pr0duct Cypher, I have a special hack that will send
mail addressed to jpp=pr0duct=cypher@markv.com to alt.test encrypted
with that famous CypherPunk's public key.  (And as a courtesy to you
all, I allow you to spell the address in any case, and with the letter
oh instead of the digit 0 if you want.)

  I might sell similar addresses for digicash -- send me mail with a
bid if you are interested.

  Below is the help file you would get if you mailed to
jpp=poolhelp@markv.com.  Try it out...



	       Jay Prime Positive's mail pool service.

  If you send mail to jpp=0x123456@markv.com, my program will look up
the key matching 0x123456 on my 'pool' key ring.  If it finds a
matching key, it will encrypt the whole message (including headers)
with that key.  Then it will post the result to alt.test with a
subject line matching 'Ignore 0x123456 blah blah blah' where blah blah
blah is the key's 'identifier.'  My mail program will be run for any
address which begins jpp=0x, so you can only use PGP keyid's.  As a
result, my program won't let you use a key if the key id is already in
use.  See below.

  To add a key to the 'pool' key ring, send mail to jpp=poolnew, the
body of the message should contain the public key in pgp format.  If
the key has a 0x123456 key id which is the same as a key already on
the keyring, my program will send a message by reply mail, and post a
message to alt.test, which has a subject 'Ignore jpp=poolnew key
already in use', and a body mentioning the key clash.  It will also
post using the clashed with key, the same thing, encrypted for the
'legitamite' user of that key with all your mail information, so that
they can talk to you about the problem.

  I will reward you if you can show me that you have managed to
'steal' a 0x123456 key id -- if you can get yours added to my 'pool'
keyring, even though there is already one there.  I will reward you
more highly if you tell me how to fix the problem.

  To remove your key from the keyring, send a signed message (in
simple english, spanish, or esperanto) asking me to remove your key.
Send the mail to jpp=poolmaster@markv.com.  For any other request,
send mail to jpp=poolmaster@markv.com (in english, or very simple
spanish or esperanto).  If you want to improve this help message, send
a copy to jpp=poolmaster@markv.com, and I will (probably) replace this
message with yours.

  For now, and untill I am sure this code is debuged, I will keep
comprehensive logs of the running of my code.  Use remailers, and
encryption as you think apropriate.

  All bets are off until I announce this service as operational -- all
service you get before that date is accidental (on my part).

j'
--
		   O I am Jay Prime Positive jpp@markv.com
1250 bit fingerprint B06229 = B8 95 E0 AF 9A A2 CD A5  89 C9 F0 FE B4 3A 2C 3F
 524 bit fingerprint 2A915D = 8A 7C B9 F2 D5 46 4D ED  66 23 F1 71 DE FF 51 48
Public keys via `finger jpp@markv.com', or via email to pgp-public-keys@io.com
Your feedback is welcome directly or via my symbol JPP on hex@sea.east.sun.com

Resist the Clipper Chip, write "I oppose Clipper" to Clipper.petition@cpsr.org







