From: Jim choate <ravage@bga.com>
Date: Fri, 8 Jul 94 06:33:18 PDT
To: grendel@netaxs.com (Michael Handler)
Subject: Re: (fwd) Re: BSD random() - any good (source included)
In-Reply-To: <Pine.3.89.9407072058.B9405-0100000@unix2.netaxs.com>
Message-ID: <199407081333.IAA16281@zoom.bga.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text


> 
> 	[2] Less than a week after a small flame war about forwarding, 
> and a suggestion that it be restricted to posting pointers to relevant 
> info, Jim forwards over 65K of relevant, though specialized information 
> that no-one had requested. Simply saying "There's some real informative 
> posts about RNGs in sci.math, thread name "XXX"" have been helpful, 
> faster, saved bandwidth and people's mailboxes, and not started up this 
> flame war.
>
The forwards were crypto related and relevant to some of the members who
don't have anything other than e-mail accounts. How do you propose these
folks get this info?

Also how about those folks who have a low latency system and the posts
in various medium to high traffic systems gets flushed regularly. These
posts were several days old and I suspect in many systems were ready to
flush (they were on mine, I 'tripped' over them doing maintenance for
something else) to the bit bucket.

And do you seriously propose that I or any other member ask prior to 
submissions? It is really funny that in general I get a few more thanks
for such posts than self-interested rebuttals like this.

While it is true that some of my questions are off the wall, I will 
continue to ask them. If they bother then .kill me. As an aside to this
I will continue to remail articles of technical interest (what c-punks
is about last I heard anything) that I feel have a good case of being
lost. 

I would also like to ask a question on a personal (no flame intended) 
nature. Were you going to post said message about these usenet submissions?
Other than myself I see very few such re-posts from anything other than
a newsgroup w/ 'crypt' in it somehow.

The flame ware, as I understand it anyway, had to do with forwarding 
multiple copies of EFF and similar material which is minimaly related
to cyrypto and most users actively look for it. I doubt a lot of the 
users here check out sci.math, sci.chaos, sci.neural-nets, etc. 

If we are really going to continue this thread then a serious discussion
relating to c-punks and some form of submission standard needs to be agreed
upon. 




