From: "Gary Jeffers" <CCGARY@MIZZOU1.missouri.edu>
Date: Tue, 15 Feb 94 22:02:09 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: money maker
Message-ID: <9402160554.AA02030@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



   I have an idea of how ambitious cypherpunks could make money. They
could be communications intermediaries between financial clients in
the U.S. & financial institutions in locations such as the Bahamas
& Switzerland.

   This would require a cypherpunk in the U.S. & another cypherpunk
in the foreign country. From now on in text cypherpunk = CP.
The U.S. CP would get message from client & then use the internet
with anonymous remailers & strong encryption to send message to
CP in foreign country. CP in foreign country then decrypts message
& gives it to local financial institution. Financial institution
gives message to foreign CP who then encrypts & uses anonymous
remailers to send info. back to U.S. CP.    U.S. CP decrypts & gives
info to client.  In this way, encryption naive client could have
access to great financial privacy & CPs get money. At this point,
I think everybody gets the basic idea.

   CPs would have initial problem getting clients. To do this they would
need to hook up with a financially sophisticated partner. That shouldn't
be too hard. College friends in finance, local CPA's you've dealt with,th,
lawyers, etc..  CPs would probably be the rare & precious birds. Once
the CP has his financial contact, that financial contact can develop
the clients.

   In the foreign country, the CP shouldn't have much of a problem
getting a financial partner/advisor & could probably operate with
neon lights. In the land of the free (the U.S.), I would advise
discretion.

   This business should not take a lot of capital. CPs would bring the
rare communications technical expertise & the financial expertise
should be plentiful. There is a possibility of harassment, so the
CP's should have courage.

   By the way, there was someone on CYPERPUNKS that was offering a
percentage of the profits for great financial ideas. I would
like to volunteer this idea. It might not meet all the specifications,
but then someone might like to change specifications & accept this idea.

   This idea may be half baked. In which case, I leave it to my fellow
cypherpunk geniuses associates to fully bake it.
                             Good luck - Gary Jeffers


                             GO TEAM GO! - GO TEAM GO!
                             PUSH EM BACK! - PUSH EM BACK! WAAYY BACK!
                             BEAT STATE! - BEAT STATE!




