From: Mats Bergstrom <asgaard@sos.sll.se>
Date: Sat, 17 Dec 94 11:53:43 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: RE: Tim May the Luddite--His Last Message for A While
In-Reply-To: <922.pfarrell@netcom.com>
Message-ID: <Pine.HPP.3.91.941217190942.26530A-100000@cor.sos.sll.se>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Pat Farrel wrote:

> Cypherpunks will continue. I'm not so sure about the cypherpunks list.

Without T.C. May, I'm not so sure either, unless somebody else could take
up his role as inofficial moderator. In the past, whenever the list has
gone astray, T.C.'s analytical posts have set things straight, calmed
down flamers and defined the relevance of various topics (to the cp
agenda). This kind of moderation, mostly set by example without annoying
hardly anyone, is not so easy to do. Completely unmoderated (in this
sense), the cp-list might become just another sci.crypt, talk.politics.
crypto or alt.security.pgp.

And without the visionary posts by T.C. May, the cp-list would be a lot
poorer. Certainly, there are other frequent posters with visions, but
T.C. May's long and deep penetration into the consequences of true
anonymity or pseudonymity has yet to be equalled on the list. (Other
verbal and experienced cp's, like Eric H., Perry M. and Hal F., among
others, of course have their own sectors of expertize, no less vital
or important.)

Appendix:

The recent boom in signed posts to the cp-list is uninteresting to
me. If an argument is good I don't care if the pseudonymous identity
(or true, in the sense of a physical identity matching the name in
a fingerprint file or whatever) is forged. I would care if an impostor
tried to give out disinformation in the name of, for example, Eric H.
But I'm sure I would notice the difference.

Amamda W.'s latest example of what MIME could be used for was
interesting. The only thing that came through to me (Pine 3.91
on a Unix shell account over Ethernet to a Reflection for Windows
client) was an underscored 'on' in red pixels. What a wonderful
instrument for SHOUTING.

Mats






