From: Anonymous <mg5n+eartdjp7xy633zeul7cwkz3c6zly7n1l98k233yemu0@andrew.cmu.edu>
Date: Sun, 10 Apr 94 09:35:22 PDT
To: mg5n+anz3ajg8o1yxicqzt6v6qgpg3tkhddpqw3jl@andrew.cmu.edu (Cypher Punks)
Subject: ILF: E-Mail Destination - Black Hole, White House
Message-ID: <Added.she2f1S00UdaAIVU59@andrew.cmu.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Brought to you by the Information Liberation Front

Reproduced without permission from Communications Week


Editor's View

E-MAIL DESTINATION: BLACK HOLE, WHITE HOUSE

Is the Clinton adminisration really an ally of the communications
and networking community, or are the politicians only jerking our
strings?

The answer to this imortant question seems to vary day to day.

A few weeks ago I received four elecronic-mail communiques from
the White House Office of Media Affairs. This caught my attention
for several reasons.

First, the administration is not in the habit of communicat-
ing with the trade press so I was impressed with this outreach.
(Cool move, guys.) Next, the messages were targeted at key
journalists using the preferred medium du jour: electronic mail.
(Very cool!) Finally, all four messages were dispatched the same
day.

I was most interested in a message detailing the administration's
efforts to communicate over electronic networks.

The Clinton administration's Electronc Public Access Project
has achieved some important milestones during its first year.
According to the project's press release:

lt has received over 100,000 E-mail messages to the president
and the vice president since it started on June 1, 1993;

It established Internet addresses and accepts E-mail from
the public;

It has electronically processed over 220,000 requests for
information since September 1, 1993; 1,600 public documents were
published electronically last year;

It established forums on America Online, CompuServe, GEnie and
MCI Mail.

The project plans this year to publish the national budget and
other public documents on CD-ROM. It also plans to refine existing
electronic com munications techniques via the Internet.

I applaud the administration for these innovations. But I
also have some reservations.

For one, it's looks great on the surface that the administration
has set up so many channels for communication. Yet this is the
key question: Is anyone really listening?

E-mail questions do not get electronic replies from administration
officials. Questioners (if they are lucky) get back a letter --
via the U.S. Postal Service. This sounds more like a black hoel
than a viable communications process.

The president did respond at least once via E-mail -- to a group
of fifth-graders in Oxford, Ohio, last spring.



At best the opinions of communications and networking experts seem
to be ignored; at worst they have been rejected by the president.

An example is the president's recent adoption of the socalled
"Clipper Chip." This encoding/decoding scheme was devloped by
the National Security Agency to assist government agencies to
evesdrop on digital communications.

Virtually every major computer and communications company, opinion
maker, and civil rights group opposes the use of this technology.
apparently, however, the president doesn't care what we think.

This action has jilted our enthusiasm for the administration's
avowed embrace of communications technology. It's beginning to
look more like a charade to keep techies playing with their toys
instead of a mature partnership in molding our technological
future.


Send reactions to 542-9851@mcimail.com

on MCI Mail or the Internet, or by fax,

516-562-5055






















































