From: VACCINIA@UNCVX1.OIT.UNC.EDU
Date: Wed, 13 Apr 94 21:31:25 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Lock Out
Message-ID: <01HB59MK2W8I003XTU@UNCVX1.OIT.UNC.EDU>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

Well, I must say I was jarred from dozing this morning by Tim's post that the 
Clipper proposal is a done deal. I suppose I have always realized this but 
never allowed it to percolate up into my conscious. Executive fiat does have
it's disadvantages doesn't it. Then irdial-discs (what the hell are irdail-
discs?) wrote about battling Clipper on the economic front. On the face of it
this would seem to be impossible. A gov't subsidized technology has too many 
advantages due to subsidy, mandates etc., right?

Kind of. We all know that the U.S. Gov't has backed all manner of winning
projects in the past. Take synthetic fuels for example, truly a master 
stroke in economic development of a technology. The problem? The market
although artificially inflated at the time couldn't sustain a price needed
to allow cost effective synth-fuel development, Gov't or not. The Gov't
will pay for expensive chips, maybe even big Corporations can be forced to
at first. But, if a cheaper, easier alternative is available, well then, we'll
see how long VLSI & Mycotronix will make chips while bleeding red ink. Gov't
absorbing development costs, yes, but direct subsidy, I don't think so.

How can we make them bleed, then? Let's take Microsoft's strategy to them.
Here I differ in opinion with irdial. The way Microsoft dominates the market
(while putting out a sub-standard operating system to boot, sorry couldn't 
help it) is to package it's software as a bundle with the purchase of a piece
of hardware. You get the computer, you get DOS-Windows, FREE (sort of). What
are you gonna use? The hardware manufacturer pays a fee per computer, 
Microsoft makes money, the computer seller gets to offer "free" software and 
everybody's happy. Except the purveyors of good operating systems because they
are locked out. What if a software version of PGP was bundled with modems and
soundblaster cards? I know I got a modem communications program with my modem,
still use it too. The software version of voicePGP (The Voice of Freedom!)
would still make money for it's designer (presumably prz) and lock out 
clipper (alot more expensive). Anyone with a computer and modem can use PGP
thru their phone!

One could even market it as the guerilla product on the NET, now available
when you buy your modem from us, VoicePGP. Just hook your phone thru the 
computer and speak without Gov't interfence or fear of intrusion. I think 
using sharp market principles crushes tawdry Gov't "programs". Microsoft has
a great strategy, let's use it on Crippler. I also think software is the way 
to go, easier, cheaper and more dynamic. Hopefully, the Gov't won't be able to 
outlaw other crypto fast enough. Speed is crucial, Phil. If modem and 
soundcard manufacturers can be persuaded to bundle voicePGP with their 
hardware, the Gov't could well be LOCKED OUT. That's nice.

Scott G. Morham             !The First, 
Vaccinia@uncvx1.oit.unc.edu !           Second
PGP Public Keys by Request  !                  and Third Levels
                            !        of Information Storage and Retrieval
                            !DNA,                       
                            !     Biological Neural Nets,
                            !                             Cyberspace

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.3a

iQCVAgUBLaoU6z2paOMjHHAhAQGOpwQAvOM79JakqkduFKPWhFeoEllhefUCNf9N
oHAFN4PvxwrruYzyDzcWV3DIYbZ2gX0ggtLzSHNE/Cp4bl70cl95pilSy1J3p0o5
OO8rhX7ze7F9MgAHztfOkmuh1A78gvy+drK/RfMhuXT+EpJpl1cDITfLNZ5XUWdR
1sbX1f+2G70=
=N0J7
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----




