From: gtoal@an-teallach.com (Graham Toal)
Date: Mon, 23 May 94 06:09:04 PDT
To: tcmay@netcom.com
Subject: Re: I posted "gtoal" string to 3 groups
Message-ID: <199405231308.OAA15960@an-teallach.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


: From: "Timothy C. May" <tcmay@netcom.com>

: Just to let you know, I took up the challenge Graham Toal proposed: I
: posted messages with the string "gtoal" somewhere in them. For good
: measure, I did it in 3 Usenet newsgroups.

: I did this more than a week ago, and have not seen any reponse, any
: indication that Graham found the messages.

: (I didn't announce that I was planning to send the messages, as that
: would make it "too easy"--a real signal would not be planned in
: advance like this, so I chose to say nothing.)

: Any comments from Graham?

Heh, smart aleck!  Since no-one seemed to be interested, I didn't
bother looking closely at the 90K of logs that Larry Wall's clip program
generates every day when you've got a big pattern file, *and* as luck would
have it, the damn program started breaking the very day after I posted that
so I could have missed it anyway.  And now my wife is visiting me for a 
couple of weeks holiday so I'm afraid I don't have time at the moment
for net.fun.

Actually I'm slowly rewriting the clip program in C with more
powerful functionality so it can be used to extract multiple threads
and file them separately - currently it all goes into one big file,
for all patterns - either that or you run multiple processes, and they're
expensive.  When I get a more robust and useful system going I'll
mention it here and maybe we can try the experiment again.  Also if
it works well, I hope to make the service available to others under
a magic-money kind of scheme.

: If I missed this, I'm sorry. I've been travelling, but think I've at
: least _seen_ most or all messages.

I'm setting off for a tour of the Scottish highlands myself, in about 30
minutes.

Bye for now, everyone.

G




