From: an6244@anon.penet.fi (Sam Hill)
Date: Mon, 24 Jan 94 03:56:36 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: the termination of wild "deteiler" accounts
Message-ID: <9401241058.AA15629@anon.penet.fi>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain




Hi all,

     I suspect that after was related to me via the  BlackNet@cyperspace.nil
key and anonymous remailer block that come monday we will find
that our problem with LD has evaporated temporarily.

On The subject of "MEDUSA"....
I didnt realize until I got a few responses back that there are a few of you
that post under that pseudonym and typically ALL CAPS posting...
monotonous to read but great fun, you realize all 6 of you, that you and
the tentacles probably have driven that poor soul buggy... great fun....
but its 2-3 of that latest series that I was convinced that was coming from
the same person... and quickly realized that due to syntactical habits
and patterns that you are at least 2 if not 3 people....
and checking over blacknet archives I find good evidence of at least 4-6
additional people.....

bout those non-responses from BlackNet@cyberspace.nil....

I am sorry we have to occasionally turn down requests
from our growing subscriber base but we do have to be careful with what falls
into our virtual hands and act as middleman for...
you know who you are... and to the "spooks" we dont do business for or with
 police/govermental/TLA's of any types....  sorry... but you guys really
dont pay your bills in the specified payment methods too well...
if you have something to trade again take it somewhere else...



I heard basically from one of those MEDUSA's that there was a booby trap
in the posting itself by the Original MEDUSA poster that would at
least result in all the nis accounts that MEDUSA paid us to publish
being temporarily if not permanently revoked...
I promised not to tell.... (for one wweek) the only
way we will know is when Detweiller arranges for yet another account
"someplace else" and finds another way to get on the net to belabor
the tentacles for the MEDUSAs actions... I hope source filtering
for remailers is implemented by then...


At least one of the MEDUSA posting made reference to AARM of richard depew fame
would that MEDUSA send it to our penet account for archiving?
Thanx in advance....


       Regards
      
       Sam Hill - BlackNet researcher
p.s. thanks Perry for your actions regarding the sysadmin...
it worked and coordinated beautifully with the various
MEDUSAs that have corresponded and done business with BlackNet@cyberspace.nil


-------------------------------------------------------------------------
To find out more about the anon service, send mail to help@anon.penet.fi.
Due to the double-blind, any mail replies to this message will be anonymized,
and an anonymous id will be allocated automatically. You have been warned.
Please report any problems, inappropriate use etc. to admin@anon.penet.fi.




