From: tcmay@netcom.com (Timothy C. May)
Date: Thu, 5 May 94 11:04:26 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: (fwd) Join our Betting Systems Re-development Project...
Message-ID: <199405051805.LAA09904@netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


I'm attaching a job offer here for a couple of reasons:

- it mentions a new betting system programming job in Hong Kong
(shades of the "Internet Casino"? Actually, no, not in this case...but
it _could_ be...)

- the focus on object-oriented methods to rewrite their
transaction-processing system has echoes of the "protocol" problem
we're talking about here

- expect very similar projects, someday, for projects in the
cypherspace

--Tim


Newsgroups: comp.object
From: gu_jc5@uxmail.ust.hk (Steven Wong)
Subject: Join our Betting Systems Re-development Project Reengineering team 
Message-ID: <1994May4.062924.2984@uxmail.ust.hk>
Sender: usenet@uxmail.ust.hk (usenet account)
Organization: Hong Kong University of Science and Technology
Date: Wed, 4 May 1994 06:29:24 GMT

Technology Architect


Join our Betting Systems Re-development Project Re-
engineering team


The Royal Hong Kong Jockey Club is evolving into a 
sophisticated user of high volume transaction processing 
technology for one of the largest wagering systems in the world 
which handles over US$100 million each race meeting.

To meet our user demands of tomorrow - for example design 
for real-time support of horse racing events around the globe - 
we now face the enormous challenge of re-developing the 
total technology base and infrastructure of these betting 
systems which will reach the end of  their life by the end of the 
millennium.

We are re-engineering with an objective to implement an up-to-
date Open Distributed Systems and Object Orientation 
approach, in order to create flexible systems capable of 
supporting the demanding needs of the Hong Kong market 
place and to position us for absorbing change well into the next 
century.

We are replacing systems at the client, network and senior 
levels.  The re-development of our network includes the 
metropolitan area branch offices, two racetracks and a 1,600 
workstation Telebet Auditorium.

As Technology Architect working with the Application 
Architect and other members of the technical team you will 
undertake the task of developing benchmarks and supporting 
the Development and Technical Research and Planning teams 
to develop strategies for system development.

With a penchant for problem solving, you must have strong 
practical experience in our planned technologies, and still be 
hands on with regard to coding and debugging.  Experience 
with OO, C++ and Unix is essential.  A knowledge of both 
written and spoken Cantonese would also be a distinct 
advantage.

This Hong Kong based position will be on a fixed 2-3 year 
contract.  To attract outstanding people, the packages will be 
mainly cash remuneration at a level reflecting experience and 
Hong Kong relocation/living costs.

In the first instance, apply with full career details 
quoting relevant ref. number, by E-mail: 
mimi@attmail.com, or by writing to The 
Senior Personnel Manager, 
The Royal Hong Kong Jockey Club, 2 
Sports Road, Happy Valley, Hong Kong.  
Fax: (852) 576 1987 or (852) 577 2773.







