From: anonymous-remailer@xs4all.nl (Name withheld on request)
Date: Tue, 22 Nov 94 15:20:25 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Guerilla Remailers
Message-ID: <199411222321.AA23584@xs1.xs4all.nl>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain




 > From: skaplin@skypoint.com (Samuel Kaplin)

 > Has anyone else given thought to "Guerrilla Remailers?" Basically someone
 > obtains an account on one of the freenets or similar free account, sets up
 > a remailer and lets it sit for a while. (Until telnet and/or phone logs
 > are overwritten) After this time frame the address of the remailer is
 > posted. The remailer then would be used until it is shut down by the Powers
 > that be. The account would be set up under a bogus name etc. This would

I think such a scheme would be limited by how difficult it is to integrate
the remailer software into the Freenet mail routines.

Most Freenets (at least Toronto, Buffalo do) use a generic type of software,
Freeport, developed by the Cleveland Freenet. I'd need other's comments
as to how easy it is to configure the remailer software to integrate with
the Freeport software that you get a working remailer.

If that step is possible, then yes, it is certainly possible to set up a
guerilla remailer.

 > make the remailer the ideal candidate for the last hop in a remailer chain.
 > (After all if they can't find Juanna DuBone or Jack Mehoff they can't apply

Both Cleveland and Buffalo, at last check simply require you to send in a
signed form (that you can capture when you log in) as to your age, address,
etc. No photo ID (ie Drivers license etc) is required so a phoney account is
relatively easy to set up.....I know...I had one on the Buffalo Freenet
until certain anarchistic activities got it canned :>.

However....here is another interesting point. I'm a Canadian, living
across the border basically from Buffalo and Cleveland. Not only would
the authorities be unable to do anything due to it being a phoney account,
but being across the border would also place me beyond the pale of the U.S.
authorities even if I actually was ever tracked down. All that would happen
is the account would be shut down.

Same for a U.S. resident utilizing the Toronto, Victoria or Ottawa Freenets.

Overall, this is an interesting concept and I'd be willing to give it a
shot. They key facet of it is whether we can configure the Freeport
software with the remailer software.....or vice-versa.





