From: hughes@ah.com (Eric Hughes)
Date: Tue, 8 Mar 94 11:28:31 PST
To: cypherpunks-announce@toad.com
Subject: ANNOUNCE: Cypherpunks meeting March 12
Message-ID: <9403081911.AA13066@ah.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


ANNOUNCEMENT
============

Monthly Cypherpunks Meeting
Saturday, 12 March 1994

MBONE: 12:00 noon PST - 3:00 p.m. PST

Bay Area physical: 
  12:00 noon PST - 6:00 p.m.
  Cygnus Support Offices, Mt. View, CA

Theme for March: Politics, Strategy, and Action


The time has come to go on the offensive.  We have labored too long in
reaction to the government attempts to restrict cryptography.  This
meeting will be a planning meeting for real-life strategies in the
political arena.

-- The Free Communication Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States

	Section 1.  Free, private, and secure speech being necessary
to the stability of a free state, the right of the people to possess,
to import into or to export from the United States and all territory
subject to its jurisdiction, to manufacture, to buy, to sell, and to
use communications and cryptography devices shall not be denied,
abridged, or infringed by the United States or by any of the states.

	Section 2.  Anonymous listening and anonymous speech being
necessary for the free expression of unpopular beliefs and opinions,
the right not to identify oneself and the right to use a pseudonym to
identify oneself, to listen and to speak, for both public and private
speech, shall not be denied, abridged, or infringed by the United
States or by any of the states.

-- Anti-Clipper legislation

-- Senate hearings on Clipper

-- HR 3627, removal on civilian encryption equipment from the ITAR

-- Positioning of cryptography in the marketplace of ideas

Jim Warren, the miracle man behind the passage of California AB 1624,
which mandated public access to legislation data which were already
computerized, will be speaking at Mt. View.

About the MBONE.  We have considered a real-time audio conference via
the MBONE.  Interest has been expressed from the following places:

	Boston, Washington, D.C., Boulder, Austin, New York,
	Cleveland, San Diego, Seattle, Finland, Germany

Unfortunately, it is unclear whether Cygnus Support, where the SF Bay
Area cypherpunks meet, will be ready for the MBONE by this Saturday.
Nevertheless, with enough other sites participating, there will be an
MBONE conference at this time regardless of whether the Mt. View site
is able to participate.  There will have to be some spontaneous
symmetry breaking for running that channel should Mt. View be unable
to join.

It may be possible for Mt. View to participate by making a direct
connection to an MBONE site and have an audio mix happen there.  This
has yet to be tested.

Specific announcements with addresses and directions for each of the
MBONE sites will follow.

This one should be good.

Eric

-------------------------------------------------------

[Directions to Cygnus provided by John Gilmore. -- EH]

	Cygnus Support
	1937 Landings Drive
	Mt. View, CA  94043
	+1 415 903 1400   switchboard
	+1 415 903 1418   John Gilmore

Take US 101 toward Mt. View.  From San Francisco, it's about a
40-minute drive.  Get off at the Rengstorff Ave/Amphitheatre Parkway
exit.  If you were heading south on 101, you curve around to the
right, cross over the freeway, and get to a stoplight.  If you were
heading north on 101, you just come right off the exit to the
stoplight.  The light is the intersection of Amphitheatre and
Charleston Rd.  Take a right on Charleston; there's a right-turn-only
lane.

Follow Charleston for a short distance.  You'll pass the
Metaphor/Kaleida buildings on the right.  At a clump of palm trees and
a "Landmark Deli" sign, take a right into Landings Drive.  At the end
of the road, turn left into the complex with the big concrete
"Landmark" sign.  Follow the road past the deli til you are in front
of the clock tower that rises out of one of the buildings, facing you.
Enter through the doors immediately under the clock tower.  They'll be
open between noon and 1PM at least.  (See below if you're late.)

Once inside, take the stairs up, immediately to your right.  At the top
of the stairs, turn right past the treetops, and we'll be in 1937 on 
your left.  The door is marked "Cygnus".

If you are late and the door under the clock tower is locked, you can
walk to the deli (which will be around the building on your left, as
you face the door).  Go through the gate in the fence to the right of
the deli, and into the back lawns between the complex and the farm
behind it.  Walk forward and right around the buildings until you see
a satellite dish in the lawn.  Go up the stairs next to the dish,
which are the back stairs into the Cygnus office space.  We'll prop
the door (or you can bang on it if we forget).

Or, you can find the guard who's wandering around the complex, who
knows there's a meeting happening and will let you in.  They can be
beeped at 965 5250, though you'll have trouble finding a phone.

Don't forget to eat first, or bring food at noon!  I recommend hitting
the burrito place on Rengstorff (La Costen~a) at about 11:45.  To get
there, when you get off 101, take Rengstorff (toward the hills) rather
than Amphitheatre (toward the bay).  Follow it about ten blocks until
the major intersection at Middlefield Road.  La Costen~a is the store
on your left at the corner.  You can turn left into the narrow lane
behind the store, which leads to a parking lot, and enter by the front
door, which faces the intersection.  To get to the meeting from there,
just retrace your route on Rengstorff, go straight over the freeway,
and turn right at the stoplight onto Charleston; see above.

See you there!

	John Gilmore








