From: "Gary Jeffers" <CCGARY@MIZZOU1.missouri.edu>
Date: Thu, 17 Feb 94 17:55:29 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: STEALTH OCEAN
Message-ID: <9402180153.AA12376@toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



answer to subtopic: Perry doesn't like stealth.

STEALTH is for when it absolutely, positively has to stay encrypted.
That is when it needs to be immune from court orders or in a really,
bad state - automatic imprisonment, or in this state if encryption
is outlawed. I should say when it also must not have a flag that says
"this is encrypted". It is not for the mere outlawing per sey that
stealth is good for.

   I understand you're stand up & flaunt it attitude, but I would like t
remind you that in the 3 cases that I know when federal laws were
gotten rid of because the masses broke them often, some caution was
used by the public. The 3 laws I refer to were 1. fcc regulation against
unlicesened CB's; 2. prohibition anti alcohol law; & 3. federal 55 mph
speed law. In these cases the public made a game out of breaking the
law. I am less clear on the caution used for the CB regulation.

   In these 3 cases, the feds wisely decided that all the laws were
doing was to train the masses to thumb their noses at the feds, & so
got rid of the laws.

   We probably need both flagged & stealth encryption. If the feds
outlaw encryption, we'll have untouchable stealth encryption ready.
Also, STEALTH would be reserved for "serious" encryption.

   It seems to me that the ideal STEALTH will be stenography with
SELF-DECRYPTING ENCRYPTION SOFTWARE. The steg-pictures would hide
strong cryptography (like PGP). After you're done with the software
it will mutate itself to harmless appearances. Maybe something like
the Cheshire Cat.

                                       thank you,
                                       Gary Jeffers


                                       GO TEAM GO! GO TEAM GO!
                                       PUSH EM BACK! PUSH EM BACK!
                                       WAAAYYY BBAACKKK!
                                       BEAAAATTTT STATE!




