From: nobody@shell.portal.com
Date: Wed, 28 Sep 94 07:03:47 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: MAIL: sufference remailers
Message-ID: <199409281403.HAA00906@jobe.shell.portal.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

Gary Jeffers makes a post about "sufference" and "fortress" remailers.

> SUFFERENCE REMAILER:
> a remailer whose operator is vulnerable to the State's gun argument.;
> FORTRESS REMAILER: A remailer whose physical location cannot be
> found. ; a remailer that does not require the consent of the State. ;

Sure there are fortress remailers, just become a government and run
one yourself.

Maybe I'm missing the point, but I don't see the use of discussing
such far flung unrealistic remailers.

In the "sufference" case: there is no such thing as a remailer that
isn't vulnerable to the State's gun argument, unless you are a
Highlander, or otherwise immortal (don't lose your head ;) And even
then, your equipment isn't indestructible.

As for not requiring consent, moving to another country is similar to
chaining mail: now several governments have to collude to shut you
down, and you hope that this offers more protection (much like hoping
remailer operators don't get together to trace your steps).

Sure, you could place a computer with satellite hookups and a power
supply on a raft in the middle of the pacific and run your remailer
from there - this kind of stuff may work for internal activities - but
remailing implies communicating with the world: somebody has to supply
you a feed, and they can be pressured if it is inconvenient to
pressure you.

I can however see (in the future) people running remailers on their
personal net-connected machines, requiring digital postage.  Hopefully
the net good usage will outweigh the net bad, and thus remailers will
be grudgingly tolerated.

But this isn't any "fortress" remailing system.

Thoth

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.6.1

iQCVAwUBLol3avFYvlqvuKtBAQFnowQAwbfOP45kwvo1qrri5IbraJ5P4JUmGJdr
zMvbmMup8rjLxuZKGoGYmAWQQfXK03j/UdmHr7RV6hvQ5Z7Jpd5Zf88CFrMcl/HP
UWUjXys6ZXqs0Q9FQAsITeCHJFDAIpk5UTRdrxu0BmQqfRSrX2+7Kim02D7Iatm7
E3krhjzupaQ=
=vHXe
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----




