From: greg@ideath.goldenbear.com (Greg Broiles)
Date: Thu, 4 Aug 94 01:28:13 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Remailer stuff
Message-ID: <m0qVxpi-0005P6C@ideath.goldenbear.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----


Sorry if I'm being dense - will someone please E-mail me and tell me
why outgoing-only (or incoming-address-unavailable) remailers are 
useful?

Also, with respect to getting the addresses of working remailers from
a newsgroup - it may not be a good idea to treat any address 
advertising itself as a remailer as a useful remailer. Remailer 'x'
may well be run by a remailer-hater who publishes its traffic openly, 
archives it for sale to the highest bidder, is a front for the NSA, etc.
I'm only inclined to trust remailers run by people I trust; or maybe
those with keys signed by "C-punx Remailer Certifying Service".
It's important to let the user have some degree of control over which
remailers are used. (The newsgroup does seem like a nice way for
remailers to indicate they're still active, though.)

Are people really interested enough in more advanced measures to
protect privacy that they're willing to pay for them? The digital-postage
remailer stuff sounds interesting to me - but I have a hard time
believing that people will pay (and go through extra hassle) to get
the same functionality they already get with existing remailers.
I've also considered setting up a privacy-friendly Internet site;
I believe that Sameer Parekh has already done so. I don't remember
seeing anyone but Sameer post from his site, however. I don't mention
this to slam Sameer but to point out that perhaps people aren't
interested enough in privacy to want to go to much extra trouble
to get it. (Of course, everyone posting to the list now is already
known as a list member - switching to a privacy site wouldn't
add much.)

I agree that it would be nice to have privacy-friendly Internet
access available - I agree strongly enough that I'm willing to
work towards providing it - but I'm reluctant to commit hundreds
of dollars per month to set up a site that won't attract enough
business to even be self-supporting. Would it be worth $5 or $10
per month to folks to have a mailbox they used via IMAP or POP,
or $20 or so for a shell account on a box at the end of a 56K
feed?

(I don't see C-punks as a very big fraction of the customers of
such a site, but I'm surprised that there doesn't seem to be
more interest in practical privacy stuff.)


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.5

iQCVAgUBLkChoH3YhjZY3fMNAQFVvQP/b2g8rgUaxWkdBR34DqMfR6T8bDZOhDmo
gATzHduPlbFTWsz2BV6ME/XgHJAxJAT14kZx8vTEKy/y3PgR7tg4zz0pcj+shZWB
BZlatH8EpZNffxO+yBF0B9Ur7HC7QrwixhVu7LjFmDwgKEnpRF/w54K8I0eXTfEh
PpMXeFvVKkw=
=T9pL
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----



