From: css@netcom.com (Chris Schefler)
Date: Mon, 24 Jan 94 04:00:14 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: No Subject
Message-ID: <199401241151.DAA03961@mail.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



I would like to apologize to the administrator of the cypherpunks mailing list
and any readers who were affected by my attempt to get off the list.

I admit that I lost my temper and acted inappropriately.  I missed the
introductory statement probably because it failed to stand out from all
the other 50 messages I received on the first day, and got deleted.  I 
also have never subscribed to a mailing list before so was unfamiliar
with conventions for unsubscribing.

I lost my temper because all my attempts to get off the list seemed totally
ineffectual, I was receiving 30-50 messages a day, and I accidentally
deleted some of my other mail in the mass deletions I was doing.

I would recommend that mailing list administrators include a small 
signature with all messages describing how to get off the list for
people like me who aren't familiar with conventions and may have missed
the introductory message.

I would also recommend automation for such a high-volume list so that
people can get a quick response.  I assumed all along that I was dealing 
with remailer software, not a human administrator.  Of course I knew there
was a person responsible for the software, but I assumed it was automated
and that since I couldn't seem to get the software to respond I would have
to take stronger measures.  I'm obviously new to the net and don't know 
things like how to find a phone number or address for the person responsible
for a remailer (I now know thanks to the advice of a cypherpunks reader).

What I did whan I felt I had no other recourse was set up a file full
of UNSUBSCRIBE messages and put in a loop mailing it to three administrative
addresses at toad.com.  I let it run for 5 or 10 minutes.

I hope all these messages did not go to everyone on the list.  I was just
trying to get the attention of an administrator.  It worked.

Please accept my apology for the inconvenience I caused.  I acted immaturely.
I now know how to get off a mailing list thanks to many helpful responses
from cypherpunks readers.  It is ironic that my initial futile attempts to
get some response by bouncing letters drew vicious flames, but whan I crashed
the remailer I got many polite and helpful letters on how to get off mailing
lists.

I must say that the foul-languaged flames I got from some cypherpunks readers
played a major role in my losing my temper.  All I did was bounce one days
worth of messages not knowing what else to do and boy, did some people go
through the roof.  After I received numerous letters with four-letter words
and other verbal attacks, I sent another message to the two cypherpunks 
addresses I had requesting for the third or fourth time to be withdrawn from
the list.  I said that if I did not get any response, I would try to shut-
down the remailer.  I waited several days and got no response.     

Enough said.  I think I am off your list now so I will get out of your hair.






