From: nzook@math.utexas.edu
Date: Mon, 18 Jul 94 12:45:27 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: "Sue" and Detweiler
Message-ID: <9407181942.AA29990@vendela.ma.utexas.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain




Okay, so I'm very new here.  Got a nickel?  Here's three cents change...

First, if you look to the posts, the Detweiler connection/accusation did not
stem from the name being used.  Cyber-stalking (combo of net-stalking and
physical stalking) has been documented, and I seriously doubt that anyone
that belongs on this list would object.  More specificly, how can Nobody
get upset about Sue?

The connection/accusation _did_ arise, however, when the text of the post
was analysized.  The Clinton/North post greatly enhanced the connection.
Once the connection was made, the system started looking for "collateral"
evidence, and found some.


Some words to "Sue":  If you have, in fact, been the subject of stalking,
physical, net, or cyber, please accept my appologies on behalf of all
honorable males for failing to properly limit the number/range of these
monsters.

If you wish to avoid being connected to Detweiler, limit your posts accordingly
Specifically, don't philosophize about 42 unless it has a strong crypto/
privacy slant.  Don't post conspiracy info unless it has a strong crypto/
privacy slant.  In fact, avoid ALL posts that don't have some/privacy slant.

Most of us have many other things to do, and since this list does around 300
posts per week, many are annoyed at best by off-topic posts.  This explains
the reason for the "Go Away" responses.


As for threats to the remailer that posted Detweiler, why not just recylce
the threat?  A and B threaten C, C routes A to B and B to A.  More to the
point, this is the fronteer, and most of us are learning.
eg: Ambulance-chasing spammers get mail-bombed.  Sounds like appropriate
Justice to me.


Now, _I_ better quit before someone suspects _me_.

Nathan Zook

When Senator Hatch supports any Clinton nominee great guns from the get go,
worry.




