From: Eric Hollander <hh@xcf.Berkeley.EDU>
Date: Mon, 25 Apr 94 04:35:50 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: the hh remailer (remailer@soda)
Message-ID: <9404251135.AA18462@xcf.Berkeley.EDU>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


i have added a feature to my remailer allowing a secure path to and from the
remailer, for both posting (mailing) and replies.  this code will be made
available soon, so hopefully people will start running more of these
remailers.

this is excerpted from the instructions.  have fun.

-------
= Encrypted remail requests

Like most of the traditional cypherpunks remailers, this remailer allows
encrypted remail requests.  To use this feature, create a file that looks
like this:

	::
	Anon-Post-To: rec.fish
	Subject: fillet of fish

	I like trout fillet...

Then encrypt this file with the remailer's public key.
remailer@soda.berkeley.edu's key is:

-----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
Version: 2.3a

mQBNAi27mNAAAAECAONCUi/9jdl0SXGhOhT4Vvgl9uOYLgbOjU5kMXEkpFQriCYC
hWfNuhH8zESs9DFTMHCXUsXYrkkm/bHdhGheaHUABRO0LlRvbW15IHRoZSBUb3Vy
aXN0IDxyZW1haWxlckBzb2RhLmJlcmtlbGV5LmVkdT4=
=aoJM
-----END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----

Then, send your message to remailer@soda, like this:

	To: remailer@soda
	Subject: this line is ignored

	::
	Encrypted: PGP
	[your encrypted file here]

The remailer will decrypt it and post it to the appropriate group.  This
feature also works with Anon-Send-To:.

= Encrypted response

This feature provides a level of security beyond that of almost any other
remailer which is capable of response to anonymous messages.  To use this
feature, first choose a passphrase.  This phrase will be used to encrypt
messages sent back to you.  The encryption will be single-key (IDEA)
encryption, not PGP's normal public-private key encryption.  The reason for
this is that public key encryption is actually uneccessary in this use, and
single-key encryption with this protocol does not require a database (such
as anon.penet.fi's database mapping aliases onto addresses) increasing the
security of anonymous users.

To use this feature, create a file like this, where your-pass-phrase is the
phrase you have selected:

	::
	Anon-Post-To: rec.fish
	Subject: fillet of sole
	User-Key: your-pass-phrase

	I like it when they cook fish like this...

Then, encrypt this file with the remailer's public key, and send it in as
above.

When a user responds to your post (or mail), his response will be encrypted
with your-pass-phrase.  You can read his response by saving it to a file and
using PGP on it.  PGP will ask you for a passphrase; enter yours, and you
will see his response to your post (or mail).

This feature allows both your posts, and the responses to your posts, to be
securely encrypted, protecting your privacy in both directions.

= Traffic Analysis

This remailer is designed to ensure that mail does not go out in the order
it is received in, to make it more difficult to link a sender to a recipient
by looking at mail logs.  This means that there will be some random delay in
your mail and your postings.




