From: Richard Johnson <Richard.Johnson@Colorado.EDU>
Date: Fri, 2 Dec 94 07:51:55 PST
To: paul@digicash.com
Subject: Re: Brands excluded from digicash beta
In-Reply-To: <199412021404.PAA18209@digicash.com>
Message-ID: <199412021551.IAA23536@spot.Colorado.EDU>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


| We're sorry to hear any complaints about the handling of any requests for 
| information regarding  ecash. As you can understand, we are certaintly not
| planning to create unsatisied ecash users at the very start of the ecash endeavour.

But, for the most part out here, we can't tell.  I, too, have heard only
deafening silence from e-cash folks in response to my multiple queries and
requests for more information on their system, let alone joining their beta
test.  Like Hal Finney, I just assumed I was being ignored because I didn't
have enough clout.  As a result, I just gave up on e-cash as something I
wouldn't find useful any time soon.

I do understand the difficulties in dealing with releases on multiple
platforms.  Still, you might at least acknowledge e-mail from people who
want to help make your system work, who want to use it.  A form letter at
least, explaining that you don't need their help right at the moment but
will let them know when a system for their platform is being released for
a wider beta test, well, that might be a real good idea.  Ignoring people
after you've publicly asked for beta testers and said "mail to <...> for
further information" is definitely not a good idea.

My count:  4 messages over about 6 months asking for more info, no replies.
My reaction:  Well, it was a nice idea.  Maybe I'll check back in a couple
of years, when there might actually be someone there.


Rich

PS - I'm not posting this to two lists because I've seen that's the only
way to squeeze a response out of DigiCash, but you can be forgiven for
thinking things like that. ;-)

-- 
Loudyellnet: Richard Johnson | Sneakernet: ECNT1-6, CB 429, CU Boulder
Phonenet:    +1.303.492.0590 | Internet:   Richard.Johnson@Colorado.EDU
   RIPEM and PGP public keys available by server, finger or request
   Speaker to avalanche dragons.   Do you really think they listen?



