From: "Shabbir J. Safdar" <shabbir@panix.com>
Date: Wed, 24 Aug 94 20:06:35 PDT
To: cpsr-berkeley@cpsr.org
Subject: 1994 Digital Telephony Bill campaign
Message-ID: <199408250306.AA27437@panix2.panix.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


The Voters Telecomm Watch has officially taken a position against
the 1994 Digital Telephony Bill.  It's not that we're slow, but it's
taken time to reach a consensus (and even reach the board members), to
compose all our materials, and gear up for the fight.

In opposing this bill, I hope to exceed our efforts of "watching"
with the Cantwell bill.  If you followed that bill, you'll remember that
we attemtped to notify the Net community before every vote with
accurate information including sample letters, phone numbers,
bill histories, and legislator positions.

We had a few problems (legislators with changing addresses and
phone numbers, voice votes that leave no record that we could tie
to the legislator) but we also had many successes.

We'll be doing the same thing (even better, I hope) this time with
the Digital Telephony bill.  We're going to try something new though.
This message will be sent to all the mailing lists we usually use
on our announce list.  If you have access to news, check the following
newsgroups:

	alt.activism
	alt.conspiracy
	alt.mag2600
	alt.politics.datahighway
	alt.politics.libertarian
	alt.privacy.clipper
	alt.wired
	comp.org.cpsr.talk
	comp.org.eff.talk
	comp.risks
	comp.society.cu-digest
	comp.society.privacy
	misc.activism.progressive
	talk.politics.crypto

(Crossposting will be done carefully, so people with decent newsreaders
 only see these alerts once)

I'll be forwarding this to the following mailing lists, who will be removed
from the vtw-announce@vtw.org mailing list:

	cypherpunks@toad.com
	eff-activists@eff.org
	eff-crypto@eff.org
	thesegroups@tic.com
	nii_agenda@civicnet.org
	com-priv@psi.com
	risks@csl.sri.com
	rre-maintainers@weber.ucsd.edu
	cpsr-berkeley@cpsr.org

Please do not forward this announcement to the above lists, they have
already seen it.  A number of people complained that the political
announcements we were sending were off topic for the lists during the
Cantwell campaign, so I hope this is a reasonable compromise.

If you do not have access to Usenet news, please feel free to subscribe
to the announce or the working lists at vtw-list-request@vtw.org.

-Shabbir



