From: Ray <rjc@access.digex.net>
Date: Sun, 31 Jul 94 15:50:02 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Announcing: The Censorship Escrow System (CES)
Message-ID: <199407312249.AA17767@access3.digex.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



   The Censorship Escrow System is a new service being provided
by The People for a Better Tommorow and SAVE OUR CHILDREN. CES's goals
are:

o to provide children with a sanitized world view
o to prepare our children as proper citizens for their government
o to prevent children from developing sexual/political deviancy
o to preclude dangerous independent thinking
o to parent the child in absense of proper parental guidance

The CES concept is simple. CES will archive all of your children's
books, tv, and educational products. We will also record and archive
all of your child's telephone conversations. If you suspect that
your child is being exposed to Dangerous Ideas, you will provide
us with a key to unlock our archives for your child. We will then review
all of the materials for offending ideas, and then recommend a plan of
action. For a small fee, you will be eligible for the CCES, or
Complete Censorship Escrow System. Unlike CES's retroactive 
censorship, CCES will monitor all of the information your child is
to be presented with, and Escrow offending material until a later day
when your child is indoctrinated enough to resist the material. 
At that time (usually age 16-18), you may give your child a key
which he may present to us. The key will unlock all of the material
he was prevented from viewing.

  
Coming Soon: Internet Censorship Escrow System
Features:

o archiving of all newsgroups and mailing lists for escrow
o authentication of age to prevent your child from gaining access
	to the active groups
o smart information filtering of K-12 newsgroups to remove/escrow material
   relating to sex, rebellion, etc.
o establishes an Internet Parent Overseer Board which when chaired by
a group of fine upstanding citizens from the community, has the power
to veto creation of public newsgroups which could be offensive to
children.


CES: Protecting your children for a Better Tommorow!

From the people who brought you the Gun Ownership Escrow System (GOES),
Healthcare Escrow System (HES), and Hate Speech Escrow System (HSES). 


-The People for a Better Tommorow

side note: CES is available now for beta testing. The internal
company name for the project is Tipper. We expect to have an
electronic expert system version of our system called the Tipper Chip
available soon for implantation into VCRs, Home Video Game Systems,
and Computers.


-TPfaBT





