From: Vinod Valloppillil <t-vinodv@microsoft.com>
Date: Fri, 17 Jun 94 12:52:39 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: FW: Larry King Live - you be the judge
Message-ID: <9406171854.AA21314@netmail2.microsoft.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


	A professor at my University forwarded a transcript of the Larry King 
Live episode to
me and I thought I'd give it to the cypherpunks to chew on....

Boy, Andy Grove really let me down....

----------
From: David Farber  <farber@central.cis.upenn.edu>
To: interesting-people mailing list  <interesting-people@eff.org>
Subject: Larry King Live - you be the judge
Date: Friday, June 17, 1994 2:51PM
Subject: Larry King Live - you be the judge
Date: Fri, 17 Jun 94 12:08:32 -0400
From: Stephen Walker <steve@tis.com>

                  CNN REPORT - LARRY KING:  CLIPPER CHIP

                        June 15, 1994

        extracts from panel on Information Superhighway


PANEL INCLUDES:     Vic Sussman - U.S. News & World Report
                    Andy Grove  - Intel Corporation
                    Vice President Al Gore
                    Chairman of the FCC

Vic Sussman:   The Clipper Chip is essentially, I should let the
               Vice President tell you, but the Clipper Chip is
               essentially, the simplest way to think about it is
               it's a way of encrypting or making phone
               conversations private and they will be private for
               anyone.  Your neighbor will not be able to listen
               in on your phone conversations. However,..

Larry King:    They can now?

Vic Sussman:   They can now, but they won't with the Clipper Chip.
               However, the government that is law enforcement has
               to have a trap door so they can get in and listen
               to what, you know, legal wire taps.  The problem
               is, and I can't believe I'm sitting next the Vice
               President and saying this, the fact is this thing
               is loathed by everyone outside of government.  Now,
               I'll let Andy talk.

Larry King:    Loathed?

Vic Sussman:   Loathed and despised. Yes, the Clipper Chip.

Larry King:    First, we will get Andy before the gang up begins.
               Andy, what do you think of the Clipper Chip?

Andy Grove:    The reason I was laughing is because the issues of
               the Clipper Chip are the arcane of the arcane and
               discussing it with the respectable technical
               community that you have on your show and yourself
               is a little bit like discussing the technical
               merits of a speed trap.

Larry King:    Why the neanderthal here? Why?

Andy Grove:    Uh, the Clipper Chip is an implementation.  One
               particular implementation of the government's right
               to tap digital information.  The government has had
               the right to tap analog information.  The kind of
               information that is taking place between you and me
               and on the phone.  The government has that right.

Larry King:    Under different lines?

Andy Grove:    Pardon?

Larry King:    Under different lines and circumstances?

Andy Grove:    They have to get a warrant, but they can tap it.
               Now just because the information goes digitally, I
               don't see the difference.  The government for its
               own law enforcement needs should be able to tap
               digital information just as well as they have had
               the right to tap analog information forever.

Chairman of the FCC:     This isn't really the FCC he is talking
                         about.  This is law enforcement issues.

Larry King:    Do you believe that? (to Vic Sussman)

Vic Sussman:   Well, I'm a reporter.  I'm just reporting what
               people are saying.  What people are saying is that
               it is going to be hard to find any software
               manufacturers, any computer manufacturers, any
               telecommunication people who support this outside
               of the administration.

V.P. Al Gore:  This is a much misunderstood issue Larry, It is an
               issue that quickly becomes very emotional.  There
               are a lot of people who think that the government's
               ability to go to court and get a warrant and try to
               track down a terrorist or drug dealer, whatever,
               Uh, ought to be just shut off if communication is
               digital. Now, I'm stating the case a little
               parjodially but that really is what is at stake.
               Think of a future in which you have a world trade
               center bombing thirty years from now with a nuclear
               device or a threat of a nuclear device being
               exploded in an urban area or some other mass
               terror.  Do we want to live in a world where the
               FBI and other law enforcement agencies are
               prevented from being able to do their jobs.  Now,
               the government should not have the right (Gore
               laughs) to tap communication unless there is a
               legal proceeding in which there is a due cause, in
               which evidence is presented, in which a court says,
               "Look alright, you have presented enough evidence
               to meet the burden of proof, legally there is
               sufficient cause to allow you to conduct this
               criminal investigation."

Larry King:    We have run out of time.

------- End of Forwarded Message


These opinions are mine and do not in any way represent the opinions of 
Microsoft Corporation,
its employees, or stockholders.




