From: Joe Turner <turner@telecheck.com>
Date: Fri, 9 Sep 94 16:30:58 PDT
To: Matthew J Miszewski <MJMISKI@macc.wisc.edu>
Subject: Re: Title VII v. Liberty
In-Reply-To: <24090820325010@vms2.macc.wisc.edu>
Message-ID: <9409092330.AA01303@TeleCheck.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text


> As to sexual orientation, um no federal law protects the class.  And yet 
>magic- ally, massive discrimination exists.  This is a natural result 
>of the condition... [snip]
>
In my last position there were 43 women working and 2 men.  I was one of those
men.  Not to flame, but what is the motivation for claiming massive discrim-
ination exists?  I have worked with a wide array of people from many different
countries, ethnic backgrounds, and sexual orientation.  I have never been
in a situation where I believe someone else was descriminated against. 

As far as descrimination goes, I am a white male just out of high school.  I
applied for government grants but uncle sam thought my unemployed father was
just too rich.  While my minority friends were getting grants and loans,
I was forced to get a job and work my way through community college.
I'm not complaining-- Two years later, I am now a Systems Engineer
for Telecheck International (and they are going to pick up the tab for my
tuition), programming on a myriad of computer operating systems (VMS, OpenVMS,
OSF, AIX, and MS-DOS) in C, C++ and assembly language, while my friends are
still trying to figure out what they want to major in.

I just get really frustrated when I hear about <insert group here> is being
discriminated against.  More often then not its just used as a justification
for government funding, an excuse for a light prision sentence, or to gather
a few liberal votes at the polling place.  I have never felt that whinning 
about discrimination or making excuses will get you anywhere.  

> Sometimes intervention works.  Granted, usually it does not.  But removing
> the regs now would work to do one thing - perpetuate the past effects of 
> discriminatory intent in today's world.

Just the other day I was reading the Business section of the Houston 
Chronicle, in which a Clinton administrative official was quoted as saying,
"its OK to fire whites to promote ethnic diversity."  My interpritation
of this is that its OK to fire people because of thier skin color.  I thought
this was illegal.                             

I am scared of the day when I go into a job interview and before I am
able to shake the CEO's hand he stops me from proceeding futher by saying,
"I'm sorry we've already hired our white person for this quarter.  We were
looking for a asian woman.  Or perhaps a black homosexual.. we'll get 
bonus points for that!"

-- 
Joe N. Turner		Telecheck International
turner@telecheck.com    5251 Westheimer, PO BOX 4659, Houston, TX 77210-4659
compu$erv: 73301,1654	(800) 888-4922  *   (713) 439-6597 



