From: xentrac@cybele.unm.edu (Kragen J. Sittler)
Date: Tue, 19 Jul 94 01:57:39 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Sue D. Nym
Message-ID: <9407190857.AA15475@cybele.unm.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text


I think that the evidence is pretty strong that Sue isn't Larry.
She's another person completely, with a different posting style, a
moderate feminist and extreme leftist political stance, a willingness
(possibly, probably IMHO) to forward unsubstantiated libels (Ollie
North smuggling drugs?  How likely is that?), a great deal of
sensitivity to the feelings of others, and a beautiful capacity to find
symbolism.  I could be wrong about any or all of these, but they are
my impression on reading her posts, both here and from the new-age
religion group.

I suggest that the cypherpunks list has been dominated by a few people
to a great extent.  They're highly intelligent people, their ideas are
worth listening to, but they don't take well to being challenged.  I
think that if we are to maintain a rational view of reality, we must
listen to the views of people from outside.  The tone has been rather
paranoid IMHO much of the time.

My opinion is that the repressive government shit that several
prominent and articulate cypherpunks fear so greatly is unlikely, for
the simple reason that the government is in the process of communist
collapse.  If it takes on health-care as well as all of the things it
has taken on so far, it will die from the inside much faster.  I
predict within two or three decades, unless it becomes a police state.

Needless to say, I don't want to be living here when that happens.
But I know that the government that rises in its place will be
different from any government the world has ever seen before, simply
because the circumstances it will arise in will be so unique.

We must be open to the opinions of others.  We don't need to accept
them without reservation;  I'd like to do my best to make sure that
what happens here after the Feds die is positive, and assures privacy.
I want to avoid the police-state mentality, though, which permeates
the thinking of many cypherpunks.

Kragen



