From: Blanc Weber <blancw@microsoft.com>
Date: Mon, 11 Apr 94 09:35:43 PDT
To: tmp@netcom.com
Subject: Re: Pseudonyms and Reputations
Message-ID: <9404111636.AA22632@netmail2.microsoft.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


it does appear that in a completely unaccountable
system, i.e. where pseudonyms are cheaply obtained and accrue bad reptation
without any consequence, `cryptochaos' can ensue.

in fact, it seems to me the mechanisms for social interaction are most
rapidly evolving on IRC, where there are all kinds of sophisticated rules
regarding operators who have control over channels, to boot out participants,
`ban' them, and the way that people `ignore' each other, etc. . . . . . . .
................................................................
Why would anyone who wants to play in a virtual environment
in disguise, also want to be able to keep up with the
personalities created.  It must be like a Walter Mitty scenario,
where someone re-creates themselves (but not really) into a preferred
kind of person, then "accomplishes" things (but not really) that they
would otherwise not have the wherewithall to realize.  There would be
a vested insterest in this re-created self because it would permit
the person to be something which they could not otherwise be, in an
environment which makes it possible (although temporary).  There
would also be a vested interest in keeping up with those other false
personas created, to the effect of maintaining a kind of camaraderie
among them, like willing participants in a falsehood.

Cryptochaos must occur when it becomes too difficult for the
imagination to maintain this database of ephemereal seemingness, when
the intent is to develop friendships but the friends are all
fabrications and so easily changed at will.

I guess at that point it would be important to have "control" over
what happens in a medium where the only thing visible is type,
electronic bits, and it is only the imagination which supplies
credibility to the  characterizations and roles.......treachery and
deceit !   You changed your identity on me, fie upon you, we can
no longer play !

Blanc




