From: bart@netcom.com (Harry Bartholomew)
Date: Tue, 25 Jul 95 02:14:45 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: (fwd) INTERNET APPLICATIONS ENGINEER/CommerceNet
Message-ID: <199507250912.CAA02676@netcom18.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


    Found this during my job search.  Lacking the skills myself,
    thought perhaps someone else on the list might be interested.
    --------------------------------------------------------------

Enterprise Integration Technologies (EIT) is a recognized pioneer in the
development of software and services for electronic commerce on the
Internet.  EIT has played significant management roles in Terisa Systems,
a company that develops, markets, licenses, and supports technologies that
make secure Internet transactions possible and CommerceNet Consortium,
which  facilitates the use of an Internet-based infrastructure for
electronic commerce to allow efficient interactions among customers,
suppliers and development partners.  Additionally, EIT was integrally
involved in the development of WebSite, a product of O'Reilly &
Associates, Inc.

The following position is currently available:


INTERNET APPLICATIONS ENGINEER/CommerceNet
REQ #103


As a CommerceNet development team member you will be responsible for
developing Internet-based security-enabled electronic commerce
applications.  

The focus will be integrating secure peer-to-peer messaging technologies,
secure distributed hypermedia environments (e.g., World-Wide Web, S-HTTP,
and SSL), and relational databases to support a variety of electronic
commerce processes.  

Develop applications in support of public key certification authorities.

The first test of an integrated secure email and WWW solutions will be
with CommerceNet members from the electronics industry. Will work with
these members in the Electronics Industry Pilot who wish to reengineer
their Request for Quotation processes using Internet-based technologies.


The ideal candidate will have:

€  BSCS or equivalent
€  Programming languages (e.g., C, C++), scripting languages (e.g., Perl) 
€  HTML, TCP/IP, SMTP and HTTP experience
€  Experience with relational databases is desirable
€  Experience writing CGI applications for the World-Wide Web
€  Experience with public key and symmetric cryptography



If you are interested,  send your resume via e-mail to eit-jobs@eit.com or
you can fax your resume to (415) 617-8019.  Please indicate the
requisition number of the position for which you are applying.

If you want to mail us a resume, please send it to: 

Enterprise Integration Technologies   
800 El Camino Real 
Menlo Park, California 94025
EOE,  Principals only please




