From: wcs@anchor.ho.att.com (bill.stewart@pleasantonca.ncr.com +1-510-484-6204)
Date: Mon, 16 Jan 95 00:59:40 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: How do I know if its encrypted?
Message-ID: <9501160856.AA23138@anchor.ho.att.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Ben writes:
> Paul, I think we're after two different objectives here.
> You want Alice to  be sure that Dave can't read her file;
> I want Dave to be sure that he can't read Alice's files.

Yeah.  Picking threat models is important.
Alice's job is easy; she can just encrypt stuff.
The problems are a bit different if the file can only be retrieved
by Alice, or if she can give retrieval tokens to Bob, Carol,
and alt.sex.spam.

If Dave is running a free or cheap service, he also may
need to prevent his site from becoming load-spammed by the
permanent floating warez+porno crowd.  (As Eric pointed out,
it's a policy-vs-mechanism issue; it's easier to run a service
if you've got mechanisms to support any policy you want.)

If Dave's charging for service, charging separately for
storage and retrieval can help - that lets the one-storage,
many-retrieval model work without having to use mechanisms like
automatic deletion-after-reading, which may not be useful for
some applications.  

For Dave to be sure he can't read Alice's files, he can't 
depend on Alice encrypting them - aside from entropy models
which are generally not very useful, Alice could always
encrypt the data and then publish the key.  So he has to do it.
Here're 1.5 approaches that can work for some threats:

Alice wants to store message M, using a key K known to Alice.
(K could be hash H(M) if desired, or sent to Dave along with M.)
Dave calculates H(K), encrypts M with K, stores E(M;K) under name H(K),
and then discards K.  To retrieve files, Alice sends either K or H(K).
There's some risk at storage - Dave is receiving the file,
so he's vulnerable to cops between the time he PGP-decrypts the 
message and the time he re-encrypts and destroys the key,
but it's brief, and can be automated so he doesn't see it in person;
he could still be coerced into eavesdropping future storage
unless there's a good blinded variant on the method.

Alice needs to keep or K or give it to her friends.
If retrievals use K, Dave can decrypt on transmission (some risk,
some potential revenue).  This has the advantage that Dave doesn't
know the access token to retrieve a given file across the net,
so he can't tell the cops what to scan for.

If retrievals only use H(K), he can't decrypt on retrieval, 
so even if the cops coerce Alice or bribe Bob into retrieving it,
Dave doesn't see the content again; it's probably a lot safer for Dave.
The risk is that cops who break Dave's system or coerce him into
giving them the files will know to look for H(K) on other systems;
scanning the net for anything that might hash to H(K) is much harder.
Also, Alice might want to give Bob and Carol H(K) to retrieve the files,
but not give them K to decrypt until later, or might send K
through other channels that only the In Crowd get.

Another extension is for Dave to store the file as H(H(K)), 
to make it more work to match access tokens against files -
Dave has the advantage of not even knowing the access token
(which the retrieve-with-K method has) as well as not letting Dave decrypt.

Using user-selected keys instead of message hashes is obviously a 
lot faster, since Dave doesn't have to calculate them,
and makes it a bit easier for Alice to memorize the keys 
instead of storing them, but it requires more Syntax in the requests,
and increases the chances of wimpy keys and especially collisions
(which essentially never happen in hash-based systems, but are more
common if people want to use keys like "Secret Plans".)
And Alice can always store the hashes encrypted and stegoed,
or store an index file on the datahaven and give her friends
the access tokens for that instead of her whole collection.
Hashes are also safer for Dave if Alice is compromised or spam is a problem,
since he doesn't have to respond to requests for "spam1.gif" or
"Nuclear Narcoterrorist KiddyPorn Monthly" or "Windows_for_95.c",
which is riskier than requests for 0x402930be89a9c901.

			Bill




