From: "E. ALLEN SMITH" <EALLENSMITH@mbcl.rutgers.edu>
Date: Tue, 5 Dec 95 16:03:09 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: [Political Noise?] Banking law changes proposed
Message-ID: <01HYGJ5YZQHC9S3QEI@mbcl.rutgers.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


	In regard to the following, I wonder if anyone knows if they're also
proposing changes that will make banking secrecy more difficult? I know about
the other proposals (Carribean treaty and all that), but this report isn't
complete enough to tell if Greenspan and the other regulators are also
suggesting things.
	-Allen 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      (c) 1995 Copyright Nando.net
      (c) 1995 Associated Press
      
   
   
   WASHINGTON (Dec 5, 1995 - 16:57 EST) -- Foreign banks can expect
   greater scrutiny of their trading, auditing and other internal
   controls in the wake of the Daiwa and Barings Bank disasters, Federal
   Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan and other regulators said
   Tuesday.
   
   Greenspan and others told a House Banking subcommittee that with the
   lightning quick movement of money around global computer networks, a
   breakdown in internal systems could cause losses that spill over into
   the broader financial system.
   
[...]

   Greenspan and a top House Republican, Rep. Marge Roukema, R-N.J.,
   supported stricter audit standards for banks.
   
   "We are considering a number of initiatives that may be implemented at
   an administrative level, especially with respect to internal and
   external controls," Greenspan told a House Banking subcommittee on
   financial institutions.
   
[...]
   
   Roukema and the panel's leading Democrat, Rep. Bruce Vento, D-Minn.,
   said they want the General Accounting Office to study the adequacy of
   a 1991 law aimed at improving U.S. supervision of foreign banks.
   
   Vento cited a string of international banking scandals in recent
   years, ranging from collapse of Barings Bank to the problems
   surrounding Bank of Credit and Commerce International, and said that
   the global supervision system suffers from "a serious problem."
   
[...]
   
   Greenspan said international bank regulators are recognizing they must
   work together more closely to protect the integrity of the global
   banking system. Japan's Ministry of Finance drew heavy criticism in
   the Daiwa case for waiting six weeks before informing U.S. regulators
   about Daiwa's losses last summer.




