From: tcmay@netcom.com (Timothy C. May)
Date: Tue, 10 Jan 95 13:18:28 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: MEETING: Jan. 14th Bay Area Cypherpunks Meeting
Message-ID: <ab3820b50302100417b7@DialupEudora>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


ANNOUNCEMENT
============

This month's Bay Area Cypherpunks Meeting will be held this Saturday,
January 14th, from 12 noon until 6 pm in Silicon Graphics Cafe Iris, the
usual place and time. Detailed directions are at the end of this message.

The topic:

                        Demonstrations

The emphasis will be on hands-on, live demonstrations of items of interest.
Several speakers will demonstrate products and tools on actual machines.

I encourage eating, shmoozing, and general milling-around to be finished by
12:30 at the latest, so we can start discussion of general items, updates,
etc. I'd really like to get the demos started by 1 p.m., and 1:30 at the
latest. We have a lot of demos planned and some special visitors in town
this week, and some special events that just happened. So, as I'm the
rotating chairentity this month, I'll wield the gavel ruthlessly.

The RSA Data Security Inc. annual conference happened this past week, so I
expect several folks will want to provide updates and news announcments,
e.g., the licensing of RSAREF, status of lawsuits, new results, etc.. Short
updates are good, but we just don't have the time for this meeting to
formally present recaps of interesting papers. If there were any *amazing*
results, they'll surely keep for a future meeting for more detailed
discussion (could be a theme for a meeting).

Also, Phil Zimmermann may be at the meeting (he's scheduled), so hearing
from him could easily soak up a couple of hours, which we just don't have.
In fairness to those who've planned demos, we'll have to try to limit all
these interesting folks to the first hour or so. Maybe a few minutes more.
And maybe later in the day there'll be time.

We have these demos planned.

* Henry Strickland (Strick) will, in his words, "be demoing Skronk
(transparent above-the-kernel encryption for TCP/IP) and Kudzu (the TCL
toolkit)."

* Jack Repenning of SGI will demo two interfaces. In his own words, "I'm
planning to demo two interfaces, actually: the Emacs one (on an Indy),
and the MCIP "MacPGP Kit" plus Eudora extensions, on a Mac."

* Phil Zimmermann "will demo pgp 2.9 and possibly voice pgp," according to
Katy Kislitzin, who is in contact with Phil.

* Katy Kislitzin will bring up the "demo smosaic" she has. (Secure Mosaic.)

* Raph Levien will demonstrate "premail," his remailer-chaining tool.

* Other ad hoc demos of items of interest may happen. We'll have several
machines set up, so those with interesting software or hardware can perhaps
do some brief, unscheduled demos.

If I left anyone out, anyone who sent me e-mail saying they wanted to demo,
I apologize. I went back over my mail and these were the folks I found
who'd sent me e-mail.

Contact me at my normal e-mail address (tcmay@netcom.com) as soon as
possible if you want to be added. (I'll be travelling to LA on Friday, for
a television interview with the BBC on crypto, and so will be unwired that
day.)

The emphasis is on hands-on demos, to expose folks to tools,
capabilitities, possible future products. Informality is fine.

NOTE TO PRESENTERS: Make arrangements to have machines you'll need there.
An SGI Unix machine is permanently in the room. Other machines will have to
be brought. Because of my trip to LA on Friday, I doubt I'll be bringing my
PowerMac 7100AV with me, but I will have a PowerBook 170 laptop Macintosh,
if all else fails. Windows and DOS demo folks should bring their machine of
choice.

(Atari, Cromemco, Amiga, Altair, and Exidy Sorcerer users are of course on
their own.)

The overhead video system is often more trouble than its worth, but it will
be available for at least some of the demos. Those wishing to tie into
should have either RGB outputs from their machine, or NTSC composite video.
I'll bring my Hi-8 camcorder, which can tie in, and thus allow me to zoom
in on whatever machines are there and display the video on the overhead
screen.

Dinner plans will, as usual, be made in the last chaotic moments of the meeting.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
DIRECTIONS:

  Silicon Graphics, Inc.
  Building 5 (SGI Cafeteria)
  2025 North Shoreline Boulevard
  Mountain View, CA

From 101 take Shoreline East.  This is towards Shoreline Amphitheatre.
It's also "logical east", and points more north that east.  (That is,
it's east with respect to 101 North, which points west near the exit.)
If you're coming in on 101 South, you'll cross over the bridge.

Continue on Shoreline and go past a whole bunch of other SGI
buildings.  Turn right onto Steirlin Court at the big red metal
sculpture.  There will be even more SGI buildings surrounding
you--take note of the building numbers.  Go almost to the end of this
street.  Building 5 is on the right.






