From: Paul Elliott <paul.elliott@hrnowl.lonestar.org>
Date: Fri, 21 Jul 95 20:50:25 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com (cypherpunks mailing list)
Subject: Re: Why no action alert, coalition opposing S. 974?
In-Reply-To: <199507212057.QAA15341@eff.org>
Message-ID: <30106384.flight@flight.hrnowl.lonestar.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


> 
> We've not "bowed out" on this bill, it's just not significant enough a 
> threat (yet) to warrant stirring up a lot of activism about it - which 
> would detract from the focus on the CDA and it's clones.
> 
> We'll be tracking this bill and will certain help form a campaign against 
> it if it looks to be going anywhere. In the mean time, we're issuing an 
> analysis of it, and will keep the net informed.
> 

Sun Tzu in his classic _The Art of War_ says:

"Therefore those who win every battle are not really skillful--those
who render  others armies helpless without fighting are the best of
all.

The superior militarist strikes while schemes are being laid. The
next best is to attack alliances.  The next best is to attack the army."

"To unfailingly take what you attack, attack where there is no defense.
For unfailingly  secure defense, defend where there is no attack.

So in the case of those who are skilled in attack, their opponents do not
know where to defend. In the case of those skilled in the art of defense,
their opponents do not know where to attack."

"Be extremely subtle, even to the point of formlessness. Be extremely 
mysterious, even to the point of soundlessness. Thereby you can be 
the director of the opponent's fate.

To advance irresistibly, push through their gaps. To retreat elusively,
outspeed them."

I am afraid that if those who favor network freedom to not apply
Sun Tzu's principles we may be defeated. What are we doing to
"attack while the schemes are being laid?" If we were to provoke
opposition now in the beginning, it would create the impression
that if the bill were to become a threat, then there would be furious
opposition. We have a chance to win by indirection. But we are loosing
it by inaction. Sun Tzu recommends the use of spies, but because
the net civil liberties organizations are inactive, we are deprived of 
our spies. We do not even know which subcommittee it has been sent to.
We do not know which Senators we should direct the pressure to.

I am now making inquiries from here in Texas (through the offices
of the Texas Senators) as to what subcommittee. But it may take
a while. But this information should be easily available to organizations
like EFF and VTW. It should be in an action alert so that people like
me here in Texas do not have to search for it using non-optimal means.

If anybody knows which subcommittee the bill has been sent to, please
tell me.

-- 
Paul Elliott                                  Telephone: 1-713-781-4543
Paul.Elliott@hrnowl.lonestar.org              Address:   3987 South Gessner #224
                                              Houston Texas 77063




