From: Corey Bridges <corey@netscape.com>
Date: Fri, 29 Dec 1995 14:03:55 +0800
To: "Vladimir Z. Nuri" <cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: cool cpunk project proposal: "cpunk approved" logo
Message-ID: <199512282150.NAA10375@urchin.netscape.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


>now, I don't know if people here realize how much great potential this
>idea has. the media just LOVES to quote these kinds of judgements when
>it's a slow news day (witness Blackwell's "worst dressed" list or
>"best haircuts" or whatever else).

Well...nothing personal, but I'd rather cut my n*ts off than be the
blackwell of the information industry... >:-)

And not to poo-poo a nifty idea, but ultimately, I think that any c'punk
cooperative effort like that is doomed to failure. Sure, people can manage
to get together every month or so for a cypherpunk meeting (well, *I* can't,
but I'm even more disorganized than most), but beyond that, things like
official c'punk press releases, and official c'punk FAQs, and official
c'punk seals of approval are just NOT going to happen and still be called
Officially Cypherpunk. It's tough to have an "official" anything for a group
that's not REALLY a group--just the name of a mailing list. 

Now, this doesn't stop Tim from creating his Cyphernomicon, and it doesn't
stop other people on this list from issuing their own press releases. Nor
should it stop you (and other interested parties) from issuing your seal of
approval to worthy products. I just don't think it'll work to call it the
Official Cypherpunk S-O-A.

Besides, the idea of having an official seal-of-approval sticker sounds like
we're only one step away from having Cypherpunk action figures. ("New Eric
Hughes figure with crushing logic grip! Detweiler with whirling Tentacles of
Doom (tm)!")

Uh, I guess I should have put "NOISE" in the subject line...


Corey Bridges
Security Documentation
Netscape Communications Corporation
home.netscape.com/people/corey
415-528-2978





