From: j.hastings6@genie.geis.com
Date: Sun, 15 Jan 95 00:26:31 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: L.A. area-Karl Hess Club
Message-ID: <199501150826.AA027478379@relay2.geis.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


The following was written by me, Kent Hastings:
Sorry, no PGP sig, I'm stranded in Chico,CA for a while...
     L O S   A N G E L E S   A R E A   M E E T I N G
"Extremism in the defense of liberty is no vice, and let me
remind you, moderation in the pursuit of justice is no virtue."
 - Aristotle, as used by Karl Hess for Barry Goldwater.
 
      ---   T h e   K a r l   H e s s   C l u b   ---
 
                    "GOODBYE, MURRAY!"
 
In the third meeting in the Post Election Series, we intended
to present an update on the Objectivists after our meetings
with the Republicans, the Libertarian Party, and Left Anarchists.
Unfortunately, the Ayn Rand Institute declined our invitation to address our
group on The Night Of January The 16th.
 
When readers of Liberty Magazine were asked to rate the
influence of various thinkers, at the top, with an equal
rating to Rand, was "Mr. Libertarian," Murray N. Rothbard, PhD.
 
Murray died last week, so we will instead have a special
Memorial tribute to his life and thought. He is best known
for his work in Austrian School economics and Libertarian
philosophy, and notorious for bashing Objectivists with
essays like "The Sociology of the Ayn Rand Cult." (Don't
worry, the abuse was mutual). His most recent libertarian
strategy was to make an alliance with the Old Right, a.k.a.
"Paleoconservatives." We hope you'll agree that this is
relevant in our Post Election environment.
 
Samuel Edward Konkin III (SEK3) knew Murray personally, and
credits him as a founder of the modern Libertarian movement
in written accounts in his magazine, New Libertarian. I assume
SEK3 will host tributes from others who also knew Murray.
 
Monday, January 16, 1995
Hasmik's Family Restaurant
Cheviot Hills neighborhood of Los Angeles
National Blvd (I think 9824 National)
 
Unfortunately, I can't attend this one because of the floods,
and I don't have the address handy, but it is the same time
and place as the last meeting.
 
Kent - j.hastings6@genie.geis.com




