From: wcs@anchor.ho.att.com
Date: Mon, 30 Jan 95 18:28:17 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: ESP Unix encrypted session protocol software
Message-ID: <9501310159.AA00485@anchor.ho.att.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


> How to do authentication of DH sessions  - it's hard to store
> a private-key safely on a multi-user server.

For now, let's look at this as client-server, rather than peer-peer.
One direction of authentication isn't too hard - the remote
client can authenticate his half with a PGP (or equivalent) public key,
and the server can keep a cache of known clients' public keys,
plus maybe have a good connection to a key server, and use web-of-trust
to help fill in the gaps.  (Getting all the details right is annoying...)
(And it increases the protocol a lot, involves post-1997 patent control,
and invokes PGP-vs.-RIPEM Public-Key-Implemention political wars.
But it's all an exercise for the reader :-)

One way to resolve the server direction is to hand-wave it away -
the authentication problem you need to solve is the man-in-the-middle;
man-at-the-end is a different problem.  After all, if the Bad Guys can 
break into the server well enough to steal root's private key,
the server is hosed anyway, and untrustable.  (The variant where the
server process is user-owned rather than root is really no different.)

If there _is_ another way to solve the server direction, it's to
do something like input the server's private key or the secret key
for root's private-key keyring into the process form a terminal
rather than a file, so it isn't stored on disk anywhere;
not a big win, but it's something.

An alternative to server authentication is to use a well-known published
half-key for the server end.  (Obviously the server still needs to keep
x private while publishing g**x mod m, but that's hard anyway.)
The client doesn't have to authenticate it, since it's well-known,
though it could be signed with a key not stored on the server,
and the server can authenticate the client's signed half-key,
so the man-in-the-middle is still unable to fake the session.
People have discussed how much this reduces security; I don't remember
the conclusions.

		Bill




