From: anonymous-remailer@shell.portal.com
Date: Sat, 18 Nov 95 06:07:15 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: CANADIAN PRESS REPORTS (was Re: CSE gets flak on TV)
Message-ID: <199511181405.GAA10722@jobe.shell.portal.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


On Fri, 17 Nov 1995 anonymous-remailer@shell.portal.com wrote:

> > Hmm, actually the news tape is reading a little strange here in Canada.
> > Not AP, or REUTERS, but simply the Canadian Press newswire.

     [snip]

> Taking three successive news stories from three days ... (press stories,
> I've since pulled for my own reference) and pasting them together to
> indicate some type of Machiaevellian?? (sp) exercise is simply "not done." 

I still feel such a sense of violation with what LD did, such an utter
sense of helplessness at the character assassination I've suffered at his
hands, that I feel that I must take some token action to "set the
record straight".  Something which clears my name.

Here is the TRUE unedited story for the list which Deitweiler felt he
had to TWIST to the nth degree.  His attempt at making mountains out
of mole hills will not succeed with this one.

I won't have him attack me, and attack everything I'm trying to
achieve on this list, through his games.  It's a non-starter from the
get go, LD.

Here's what was truly written ... let the list decide for itself.



COMMUNICATIONS SECURITY ESTABLISHMENT
Canada spied on allies: ex-agent

Top secret security agency accused of eavesdropping
on South Koreans by former analyst

The Canadian Press 
TORONTO

  Canada's electronic espionage agency has spied on friendly countries
such as South Korea, Mexico and Japan despite Ottawa's denials, a
former agent has told CTV News.
  "I have lived with this information for so long and I just think
that it is time that Canada knows what CSE is doing, " Jane Shorten
said in a report for broadcast late Sunday.
  Shorten, 38, worked as an analyst from 1986 to 1994 -- when she was
laid off -- for the Communications Security Establishment (CSE), CTV
reports.
  A separate entity from the better known Canadian Security
Intelligence Service, CSE can be described as a technological peeping
tom.  It specializes in electronic espionage, monitoring radio and
other transmissions for useful information.
  The Soviets and their allies were once the prime targets of such
surveillance, but after the thaw in the Cold War, CSE shifted its
attention to friendly countries, Shorten told CTV.
  The agency spied on Canada's allies and trading partners,
eavesdropping on friendly embassies, consulates, diplomats in Canada
and around the world, she said.
  Ottawa denies it.  "Countries like Canada have understandings that
they don't carry out these activities against each other, " Solicitor
General Herb Gray said earlier this year in response to claims that
the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency had spied on the Japanese
delegation during auto trade talks in Geneva.
  Replies Shorten: "He does not know what's going on because CSE is
certainly doing that ... I spied on the (South) Korean government for
the Canadian government."
  CSE is part of the Defence Department but Shorten insists senior
officials at the Foreign Affairs Department were fully aware of its
activities and anxious for its information.
  "I know my reports went to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs," Shorten
told CTV. "My reports were classified as Top Secret Umbra and that's
as high as you can get, and these people were cleared to get that kind
of information."
  Shorten, once described by a superior as a gifted intelligence
analyst, told CTV she was aware her revelations could result in
prosecution under the Official Secrets Act but felt the risk of prison
was worth it.
  "I feel so strongly that it's time that people learned what CSE is
all about," she said.







