From: Jim Gillogly <jim@acm.org>
Date: Fri, 6 Oct 95 08:24:55 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Where is text of wiretap bill
In-Reply-To: <199510061435.HAA16061@blob.best.net>
Message-ID: <199510061524.IAA02409@mycroft.rand.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



> "James A. Donald" <jamesd@echeque.com> writes:
> Did the wiretap bill, as passed, contain those magic words:
> "or other legal authority"?

Yes, it does, repeatedly.

          SEC. 103. ASSISTANCE CAPABILITY REQUIREMENTS.
            (a) Capability Requirements: Except as provided in subsections
          (b), (c), and (d) of this section and sections 108(a)  and 109(b)
          and (d), a telecommunications carrier shall ensure that its
          equipment, facilities, or services that provide a customer or
          subscriber with the ability to originate, terminate, or direct
          communications are capable of--
                (1) expeditiously isolating and enabling the government,
              pursuant to a court order or other lawful authorization, to
              intercept, to the exclusion of any other communications, all
              wire and electronic communications carried by the carrier
...
                (2) expeditiously isolating and enabling the government,
              pursuant to a court order or other lawful authorization, to
              access call-identifying information that is reasonably
              available to the carrier--
...
                (3) delivering intercepted communications and
              call-identifying information to the government, pursuant to a
              court order or other lawful authorization, in a format such
              that they may be transmitted by means of equipment, facilities,
...
          SEC. 105. SYSTEMS SECURITY AND INTEGRITY.
            A telecommunications carrier shall ensure that any interception
          of communications or access to call-identifying information
          effected within its switching premises can be activated only in
          accordance with a court order or other lawful authorization and
          with the affirmative intervention of an individual officer or

> Where can I get the text of the wiretap bill?

From the Library of Congress' "Thomas" server: http://thomas.loc.gov/
Look for either SB 2375 (Senate) or HR 4922 (House).

An assistant director of the FBI, William Baugh, spoke recently at the ICI
conference in DC.  He said he hoped American industry would be cooperative
in making the voluntary compliance with TESSERA or other GAK widespread,
because if it doesn't happen then they would need to come back and get
more Congressional action, and "we found the coercive solution we had to
use for Digital Telephony very draining."

If <that> doesn't get them your sympathy, what will?

	Jim Gillogly
	Sterday, 15 Winterfilth S.R. 1995, 15:18




