From: John Young <jya@pipeline.com>
Date: Sun, 30 Jul 95 07:14:34 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: SIN_not
Message-ID: <199507301414.KAA07174@pipe1.nyc.pipeline.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


   7-30-95. NYPaper:


   "His Terrible Swift Sword: Thomas Sowell takes the shortest
   way with left-liberal elites." [Book Review]

      His stated mission is to attack and destroy the dominant
      intellectual elites of modern America: those liberal and
      left-wing intellectuals whose disproportionate control
      over the American psyche he believes responsible for the
      drift, stagnation and disquiet of our times. The
      anointed, as he dubs them with ill-concealed derision,
      have the right degrees and clubby credentials, but tbeir
      false sense of noblesse oblige and their inordinate
      faith in their own intelligence and probity blind them
      to the cautious, decentralized and incremental logic of
      markets. In consequence, they unwisely embrace huge
      government interventions to end a set of social "crises"
      that never existed. They have expanded civil liability
      beyond recognition. They have led the civil rights
      movement away from equal opportunity and individual
      merit into the bottomless pit of affirmative action and
      minority set-asides. They have wrecked the criminal
      justice system and have licensed judges to stray from
      judicial restraint into the lawless world of judicial
      activism.                                      NIF_pig


   "N.R.A. Criticized for Aggressive Tactics: Against the
   A.T.F."

      The National Rifle Association has entered an aggressive
      new phase in its long and contentious relationship with
      the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. Opponents
      of the N.R.A., as well as some of its longtime
      supporters, say some of the organization's tactics have
      crossed ethical boundaries and may well have backfired,
      reinforcing an image of the group as dominated by
      right-wing zealots.                            NAW_leg


   Duet:  SIN_not






