From: KALLISTE@delphi.com
Date: Tue, 8 Aug 95 22:00:10 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Only 1/3 of Government Computers Down So Far
Message-ID: <01HTUMY1W4UA91Y3J0@delphi.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

	   Allegations Regarding Vince Foster, the NSA, and
		Banking Transactions Spying, Part XV

			  by J. Orlin Grabbe

	The world of money laundering is a difficult one.  What are you 
going to do when your wire transfers to the Caribbean and other offshore 
centers won't go through?  What are you going to do when one-third (as of
August 8, 1995) of certain government computers are down with a virus?  Or 
is it a worm?  Or an octopus?  

	Did the NSA, in its zeal to modify the PROMIS software to spy on 
banking and other transactions, create a massive security hole in computer
systems sending wire transfers?   

	Well, I do hear it is a nice time to go vacationing in the islands, 
even for day trips!  Perhaps FinCEN could relocate to Havana?

	[Note to Julie Franklin:  Over here in Reno, we're always last to
get the news.  Well, I'm a taxpayer.  *Please* put me on your list. In the 
future please fax all computer disconnect info to 702-829-0852.  Thanks.]

	Which brings us to the subject of Ed Meese.  At the end of Reagan's
second term as governor of California, Meese needed a new job. He worked at 
Rohr Industries for a while.  But it didn't suit him, so *Richard Mellon 
Scaife* set up the San Diego Center for Criminal Justice on condition that 
Ed Meese be its Director, a post Meese held 1977-1980.   

	Later, after Ed Meese became Attorney General of the U.S. and the
the people-tracking PROMIS software was stolen by the U.S. Justice 
Department using (according to a federal bankruptcy judge) "trickery, deceit, 
and fraud", Ed Meese's friend Earl Brian--then owner of Financial News 
Network, UPI, and Hadron corporation--proceeded to market the software all 
over the world, as well as to U.S. intelligence and law enforcement agencies.

	One agency that acquired the software was FEMA, the Federal  
Emergency Management Agency, which proceeded to create a data base of
political dissidents to be rounded up in event of a national emergency.
(Like any information, once collected it found multiple uses.) This data 
base was called MAINCORE, and the FEMA MAINCORE system was operated out of 
the basement of a building in Culpeper, VA.  

	Journalist Danny Casolaro, with the help of Alan Standorf, was able 
to get printouts of this totalitarian application of the PROMIS software 
just prior to his demise.  (When a member of congress attempted to question 
Oliver North about the FEMA MAINCORE data base, he was rudely shouted down 
by the chairman of the investigative committee.)

	Another agency that put the software to use was the Wackenhut
Corporation. It used the enhanced PROMIS to keep track of critics of the 
nuclear industry, an area in which *Richard Mellon Scaife* has a vested 
financial interest.

	Now Mellon bank in Pittsburgh finds itself embroiled in very
serious money laundering charges.

	Do these facts explain why the Little-Rock connection to the 
theft and modification of the PROMIS software for the purpose of spying
on banking transactions is a subject carefully avoided in Scaife-sponsored 
political advertisements?  

	Is this why the Mena-drug-smuggling, Little-Rock-money-laundering
operation allegedly stops with Bill Clinton?  
		    
	Is this why the connection of Vince Foster both to bank spying and 
nuclear espionage has been carefully downplayed?  

	Do Scaife's investments in the "terrorism industry" have anything 
to do with recent media hyping of the imminent threat to the U.S. of 
"international" terrorism?  

	Scaife's exposing of the sins of the Democrats has certainly 
served a useful purpose.  But don't think the story stops with Bill
Clinton.

	Perhaps the reason that Mr. Kenneth Starr's independent 
investigation into the Whitewater affair has gone so slowly is that 
Mr. Starr, in order to nail Bill Clinton, has to also nail a number 
of high-ranking Republicans?  

	Well, Mr. Starr, let the facts fall where they may.  I have 
confidence in you.  You do want to be Attorney General someday, don't 
you?  If you can find your way to do the right thing, you'll certainly 
deserve the position.

	Otherwise the wily hackers of the world may have to do your job
for you. 

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.6.2

iQCVAwUBMChlMWX1Kn9BepeVAQHbhgP/bSlSNnUClp4HPEDiB22JGHrqvMa5B6h8
LW0rR7eZdD2ub9CUj/HBfIrnU4mekw6MfmExxuy+mva1Z5MPsZKuE1qvxWBFHK5S
TzMFsPBsZNPH2GEDIQHZp/rIQeKYDsfjOp1OLVUPD9MA4tlTOQPgQ5RVzzKi+tEF
K1+Uxvy1lQ4=
=5pPJ
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----




