From: Nathaniel Borenstein <nsb@nsb.fv.com>
Date: Thu, 27 Jul 95 14:11:27 PDT
To: Censored Girls Anonymous <carolab@censored.org>
Subject: Re: You have cashed my check....
In-Reply-To: <Pine.BSI.3.91.950725170206.8971A-100000@usr4.primenet.com>
Message-ID: <8k601XmMc50e1Dw2ZC@nsb.fv.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


First of all, let me publicly apologize for any role we may have played
in your problem.  I don't yet know if there's a bug in our system or
EDS' system that caused this to happen, but if so I assure you it will
be found and fixed.  We are investigating.

I am responding now -- in advance of any real facts to offer you --
primarily because you sent a CC of your mail to so many public lists. 
The "humanhelp" address on your mail will feed into a complex customer
support department, from which you should already have received an
automatic acknowledgement and a "tracking code".  You should receive a
response from one of our human operators within 48 hours.  However, the
way that the humanhelp software works, those answers will NOT
automatically be CC'ed to cypherpunks and all the other places you CC'ed
your question.  Therefore I am answering you now in order to assure
everyone who saw your message (via those widespread CC's) that it is
indeed being handled through the normal channels, but that FV's
responses will not be widely cc'ed.  It will come to you alone, as
private mail.

In general, it isn't necessary to CC the world on your first interaction
with a customer service department; perhaps if you had sent us several
messages and we hadn't answered you, this would have been an appropriate
response.  As it is, the situation is almost certainly either a human
error in the data entry for your bank account or a hitherto-undiscovered
software bug.  But we have many happy sellers who can attest to the fact
that we do regularly deposit money in their bank accounts.  It's not a
scam.  Please don't assume the worst until you give us a chance to
diagnose and fix the problem.

(In fact, if it were a scam, why would we send you an alarming-looking
letter telling you that your bank account information appears to be
invalid?  It seems to me that it would be much smarter for us to just
quietly eat your money, if that's what we wanted to do!)

I assume that you did not, in fact, close or otherwise change your bank
account -- if you did, that would certainly explain the whole episode,
and our system would be functioning completely as intended.  We will
proceed in our investigation under the assumption that this is not the
case, and will let you know (via private email) what we find out.  At
some point, someone may need to contact you via telephone to verify your
account information.  Stay tuned.  -- Nathaniel

--------
Nathaniel S. Borenstein <nsb@fv.com>    |           When privacy is outlawed,
Chief Scientist, First Virtual Holdings |     only outlaws will have privacy!
FAQ & PGP key: nsb+faq@nsb.fv.com       | SUPPORT THE ZIMMERMAN DEFENSE FUND!

---VIRTUAL YELLOW RIBBON-->> zldf@clark.net <http://www.netresponse.com/zldf>




