From: "Vladimir Z. Nuri" <vznuri@netcom.com>
Date: Wed, 20 Sep 95 12:31:48 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: cypherpunks press releases/contact list: YES!! DO IT!!
Message-ID: <199509201928.MAA20230@netcom16.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


I'm going to argue against TCM and others who are opposed to a 
"cypherpunk press release" because this is not an "organized group".

a press release mechanism is one way by which the organization of this
group can be increased. and I'm going to say something heretical 
in cypherpunk circles, but imho, ORGANIZATION == POWER. this is
a basic rule of life that all the rabid libertarians and cryptoanarchist
loners here hate to admit, but it's really true and inescapable.

anyone who wants to issue press releases for the "cypherpunks", I say,
GO FOR IT. don't let someone discourage this because this is an
"anarchy". that's actually an excellent reason for you to JUST DO IT!!
some will be willing to have their names on the list, and they will
email you. others will flame you and not want their name included. simply
ignore the later category!!

the cypherpunk logo is not copyrighted. no one has any say on who or what
a "cypherpunk" is. so, let someone pick a reality and let it prosper
or wilt by assent and "voting with the feet".

just be careful not to misrepresent anyone. start a list, just like anyone can
start a FAQ. a list of names to contact and their specialties would be
*excellent* for this purpose. occasional press reports on what is happening
on list traffic would be very useful, too.

look, there are some very tangible and definite ways to advance the
cypherpunk agenda. there are many here who like to play in the dark
and shadows and not make any noise. that's fine!! but don't expect everyone
to share your disinterest in publicity or organization. if this is in
fact an anarchy, why are you discouraging anyone from pursing that which
interests them??

IMHO playing in the dark, not trying to appeal to the widespread masses
through the media and everything else at hand, is just the NSA's way
of trying to manupulate reality through "back door" approaches.

I again suggest that a simple list of poeople here who are willing to
talk to the press, organized under their expertise/speciality, is an
*excellent* idea that is an idea whose time has come. 

this is such a great idea that *I* may do it if nobody does it after
a week or two.


--Vlad Nuri




