From: an158409@anon.penet.fi (beacher)
Date: Thu, 2 Feb 95 05:46:08 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: computer underground digest stuff
Message-ID: <9502021305.AA25319@anon.penet.fi>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Date: Fri, 20 Jan 1995 00:13:29 -0600 (CST)
From: David Smith <bladex@BGA.COM>
Subject: File 1--ACM Computers Seized by IIT (fwd)

               ---------- Forwarded message ----------

ACM Computers Seized By Illinois Institute of Technology

  "And let it be known throughout the world what was done this day..."

Dateline January 17, 1995

Today sometime before noon today, the Illinois Institute of Technology
seized the computer systems of the Association for Computing Machinery
student chapter at IIT.

700 Student and Faculty users are not happy.

And are now without their Email and other private files. The locations
of the ACM systems is currently unknown, and the security of the
system and the accounts on it is highly questionable, as it was quite
literally riped out of the wall. ( a piece of the modem was found
lying on the table ).

The reasons given by IIT where that members of ACM are suspected of
hacking into the computer of another IIT student group, and pulling
several pranks.  The memo sent to the Dean of Students details the
hacking attempt, but no evidence points to ACM's systems or to any of
their users, but the memo does make several unbacked accusations. And
at this time, we can see no reason ACM would even be tied to the
events. However because ACM members are suspect, the systems where
unlawfully seized by IIT.

IIT has no legal right to seize ACM's systems, nor anyone else, as
they contain private accounts, files, and Email.  Such rights are
protected under the Electronic Communications Privacy Act (ECPA),
which extended most of the protections of the federal Wiretap Act
("Title III") to electronic mail.  Precidence established in the case
Secret Service vs. Steve Jackson Games decided March 12, 1993

Needless to say, ACM members are not too happy about all of this.  And
the other 700 people don't seem happy either.

            ---------------------------------------------

Dateline January 18, 1995

   o Members realize that along with Troll, which is physicaly
     considered IIT's property even tho it was purchased with student
     funds, property of ACM members was also seized includind a
     network card, SIMM modules, and the modem that was broken by IIT
     during the seizure.

   o ACM recieves writen copy of allegations and supposed proof that
     ACM systems where used in the attempt. However the evidence
     clearly shows that other IIT owned systems where used and NOT
     ACM's systems.

   o Electronic Frontier Foundation is called and informed of the
     situation, and begins investigating the situation.

   o ACM HEARS THAT THE COMPUTER SYSTEM IS IN THE PROCESS OF BEING
     SEARCHED BY IIT STAFF, AND ACM MEMBERS NOW CONSIDER THE SYSTEM
     COMPROMISED. STILL NO EVIDENCE SHOWING ACM INVOLVEMENT.

   o Word continues to spread amung the IIT community, many more
     students and faculty are outraged about the seizure of their
     accounts and files.

   o Continued stress to students due to the lack of access to their
     Email, addressbooks, and other files. Email is now being lost in
     mass due to the

   o ACM systems removal, much of which is considered critical by many
     people.  ACM members miss the Chicago ACM meeting due to the fact
     that all the info concerning time/location was stored on the
     seized systems.

   o ACM members miss the Chicago ACM meeting due to the fact that all
     the info concerning time/location was stored on the seized
     systems.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
To find out more about the anon service, send mail to help@anon.penet.fi.
Due to the double-blind, any mail replies to this message will be anonymized,
and an anonymous id will be allocated automatically. You have been warned.
Please report any problems, inappropriate use etc. to admin@anon.penet.fi.




