From: Christian Wettergren <cwe@Csli.Stanford.EDU>
Date: Sun, 27 Aug 95 11:48:30 PDT
To: Damien.Doligez@inria.fr (Damien Doligez)
Subject: Re: SSL trouble
In-Reply-To: <9508261034.AA15406@couchey.inria.fr>
Message-ID: <199508271848.LAA18104@Csli.Stanford.EDU>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



| Let us call "sequential search" an algorithm that remembers which keys were
| tried and avoids trying them again, and "random search" an algorithm that
| just tries keys at random without bothering to check.
|  
| The sequential search has the following problems:
|  
| 1. The server is badly overloaded.
| It is vulnerable to a variety of active attacks:
| 2. "result hoarding" attacks: finding the result and reporting it "not foun
d".
| 3. "dilution" attack: allocating some search space and not sweeping it.
| 4. plain old "denial of service" attack: deliberately overloading the serve
r
|    with bogus communications.
| 5. And of course all of the above in their "buggy software or hardware"
|    versions.

And there is the third alternative, hierarchical search, which
distributes the task of giving out keys. This is admittedly a
little bit more involved, of course. The SKSP had provisions for
doing it hierarchically, as far as I understood it, although
I might be wrong.

What I wonder is wheter the server congestion really showed that
the protocol is flawed. Handing out bigger blocks relieved the 
situation. I think this can be further improved if you do a couple 
more things.

1. The server knows approximately how many requests per second it 
can take, and tells the clients this information.

2. The client initially does a testrun, and determines how fast it 
runs.

3. Each client is handed a block that, given the approximate number
of currently pending and active blocks out there, together with the
calculation time of the client, will give an acceptable number of 
requests/time unit to the server.

4. The server acks (S-ACK) the block-ack to the client. If the client 
doesn't get an ack (S-ACK) from the server for its ack (B-ACK), it 
keeps the ack around til the next block is calculated, and sends this 
ack together with the new acks.

5. The server can hand out allocated blocks to others, for those
blocks that has not been acked in three times the estimated
calculation time. 

6. If a client is unable to get a key allocation after a number of 
tries, it can chose a random block and search that. It can then be
acked to the server. This may result in overlapping blocks, but this
should not pose such a big problem, since most of the key space is
searched in an orderly manner anyway.

It would be very interesting if detailed statistics or the logfile
of the server could be published somewhere. How many machines were
involved? etc...

/Christian





