From: craig@passport.ca (Craig Hubley)
Date: Fri, 27 Jan 95 16:13:05 PST
To: mossberg@wsj.com
Subject: anonymous mailing
Message-ID: <m0rY0ml-0002H4C@forged.passport.ca>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Since you invite comment:

You seem to think that anoynimity can be separated from privacy itself.
Anoynimity was an accidental feature of the telephone system that was
only recently eliminated.  Now, it seems, that those who seek control
over others have realized that it could be eliminated in other media
as well (why not routinely fingerprint everyone, and dust all postal
mail for fingerprints? More practically, why not earmark every transaction
on the Reuters feed?  Or credit every article in the Economist?).  But
even these fundamental disruptions to basic institutions are dwarfed by
the threat to individual confidence to speak out and not fear retribution,
in a world with so many laws that everyone is breaking one or another...

Consider this:  Given the speed and efficiency with which data
can be gathered over the networks, including levels of traffic between
entitites (often the most useful data for purposes of spying on them),
it could be a matter of a short time before a complete dossier of our
motions and associations is in the hands of every lawful authority,
every service provider, and every brother in law of either, and for sale
to the highest bidder - note that most complaints against "hackers" that
dig up private data concern attacks against large data banks (e.g. bank
records).  We might question the buildup of these data banks that make
us so vulnerable to invasions of privacy, rather than those who invade.

I am pondering whether to put a standing offer out in this feared "hacker"
community for your tax records.  If I received no takers for the challenge,
I am confident that it would not be due to lack of ability, but because
they respect your rights more than your respect theirs.  That is, ours.
That is, yours.

There is no need to protect my name in this case, but only because it
seems clear to me that a majority of those who understand this issue,
stand on my side.  If we ever become a minority I may feel less confident,
and then anoynimity may make the difference between speaking out alone or
not at all.  Extinguish the "lone anonymous voice" from electronic media,
which is the mainstream in which commerce is done and thoughts develop,
and you might as well have extinguished the pamphleteer from the American
Revolution.  In fact, you *will* have extinguished him.  I hope you have
something to replace him with:  Universal tolerance ?  Spiritual nirvana?
How do you propose to protect the lone citizen with an unpopular view who
is not yet numerous enough to command a seat in Congress.

Craig Hubley                Business that runs on knowledge
Craig Hubley & Associates   needs software that runs on the net
craig@passport.ca   416-778-6136  416-778-1965 FAX





