From: "James M. Cobb" <jcobb@ahcbsd1.ovnet.com>
Date: Fri, 1 Dec 1995 18:43:47 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: WTO an even worse possibility as Inet regulator.
Message-ID: <Pine.BSD.3.91.951201050752.28674C-100000@ahcbsd1.ovnet.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


 
 
Friend, 
 
 
attila@primenet.com did the list a service when he sent his 
message, "WTO an even worse possibility as Inet regulator." 
 
Basing the message "on an article from the (London) Finan- 
cial Times," he states that 
 
   a very credible white paper is circulating for the WTO to 
   establish an internet CZAR to regualate the Internet... 
 
and he asks: 
 
   personally, the Feds and the FCC are bad enough --now 
   they want to have a **global** bureaucracy play god  -??? 
 
 
That 11 29 95 Financial Times newsstory is headlined: 
 
     Global regulator urged for information highway 
 
 
Who's doing the urging? 
 
The Royal Institute of International Telecommunications 
Policy put out a report written by a Shell man and a think- 
tank woman. 
 
As regards encryption, the RIITP people 
 
   ...point out that issues such as...encryption...have global 
   rather than national aspects. 
 
 
Then they contradict themselves: 
   
   "Encryption, for example, raises tricky and emotive issues 
   connected with...national security and cannot be treated 
   simply as a business problem." 
 
 
Whatever works!  They "encrypt" the ultimatums of the New World 
disorder in any...key. 
 
At the very end of the newsstory: 
 
   Global Superhighways, Chatham House, 10 St James 
   Square, London SW1Y 4LE 
 
 
I'm guessing Global Superhighways is the title of the RIITP 
report.  As for Chatham House... 
 
  In 1919 [a group of young men who became the dominant 
  influence in British imperial and foreign affairs up to 1939] 
  founded the Royal Institute of International Affairs (Chatham 
  House) for which the chief financial supporters were Sir Abe 
  Bailey and the Astor family (owners of The [London] Times). 
  Similar Institutes of International Affairs were established 
  in the chief British dominions and in the United States 
  (where it is known as the Council on Foreign Relations). 
 
    --Carroll Quigley [Clinton's mentor].  Tragedy and Hope. 
      A History of the World in Our Time.  Macmillan, 1966. 
      P 132. 
 
 
RIITP is probably a front for RIIA.  I conjecture, though, that 
the real publisher of the report has his house in Washington. 
 
I agree with jamesd@echeque.com who writes: 
 
        The main threat to freedom is still internal, 
                    rather than external. 
 
 
Looked at from the inside, of course. 
 
 
Cordially, 
 
Jim 
 
 
 





