From: John Young <jya@pipeline.com>
Date: Mon, 9 Oct 95 04:52:00 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: GOB_ble
Message-ID: <199510091151.HAA05403@pipe4.nyc.pipeline.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


   10-9-95. NYPaper:


   "Is the top priority in computing shifting from speed to
   how easily you can interact? How fast will the
   Microsoft-Intel duopoly fade?" Denise Caruso's column

      When the Internet's original creators decided to publish
      their networking standards so that any computer could
      connect to the network, they certainly had no idea that
      almost 30 years later, their decision would provide the
      first real lever to pry the Microsoft-Intel duopoly from
      its leadership role. But this very prospect is why one
      well-known technology investor made a speech last week
      called, "Why Microsoft and Intel Don't Matter Anymore."


   "Haves and Have-Nots Revisited. Rich Nations Talk
   High-Tech, but the Poor Live No-Tech."

      Digital technology is revolutionizing telecommunications
      and erasing the boundaries that separate the telephone,
      computer and media industries. But the revolution's
      inequality takes the shine off a business that has
      celebrated itself as both a one-stop shop for the
      Information Age and a force for positive political
      change in the world. "The present reality is that the
      technology gap between developed and developing nations
      is actually widening," said Nelson Mandela, who spoke at
      Telecomm 95's opening.


   "A software gift service, by lawsuit and negotiation, tries
   to demonstrate that it takes its claim seriously." Sandra
   Chartrand's Patents column.

      One controversy is a patent issued in 1985 for selling
      software to individuals through the Internet and some
      CD-ROM's. Its owner, Interactive Gift Express Inc. says
      the patent covers the selling and downloading of digital
      information. There are those who disagree. "I've read
      the patent and can actually say that there is no
      invention there at all," said Richard Stallman at MIT.


   Trio: GOB_ble  (16 kb)












