From: John Young <jya@pipeline.com>
Date: Fri, 4 Aug 95 17:51:10 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: SYN_tax
Message-ID: <199508050050.UAA07631@pipe1.nyc.pipeline.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


   8-4-95. W$Japer:


   "Cyberpoliticking: Presidential Races Are Being Changed By
   Latest Technology. Internet and Other Sources Can Tailor
   Information, Sway Voters' Decisions."

      This kind of campaign foray into cyberspace is but a
      small slice of a much bigger revolution. The explosion
      of new avenues of information -- digitized,
      computerized, cabled and broadcast -- will change the
      way Americans gather the information they use in picking
      their leader next year. Campaigns are struggling to
      figure out how to cope with this static-filled world, in
      which they can use new technology in unprecedented ways
      to reach both mass audiences and ever-narrower niches of
      specific voters. For voters, the difficulty will be to
      distinguish between the information and misinformation
      inevitably mixed into the avalanche.           LYN_jrk


   "Silicon Forest: For Oregon, the Boom In High Tech Brings
   Jobs and Handwringing."

      The quest for cheap land, cheap labor and tax breaks has
      led most of the world's biggest chip makers here, more
      than $13 billion in high-tech construction is either
      under way or proposed for the 100-mile swath of rural
      landscape stretching from Portland to Eugene. But
      surprising resistance is cropping up. In May, Yamhill
      County, at the western edge of Silicon Forest, rebelled
      against Sumitomo Sitix Corp.'s demand for an $58 million
      tax break for its proposed $912 million chip plant. In
      June, several hundred people turned out to cheer
      speeches opposing plans by Hyundai Electronics America
      to build a $1.3 billion chip plant.            KIK_but


   Ev & Ad's kids: SYN_tax






