From: blancw@accessone.com
Date: Sun, 8 Oct 95 21:12:03 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Crypto's Role in Evil?
Message-ID: <9510090412.AA02181@pulm1.accessone.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



The cpunks like to avoid bringing up these issues because they become so 
complex, convoluted, involved, & protracted, but these comments from Timothy C. 
May are real discussion-bait.

In the past, when I have read the non-libertarians on the list argue against 
the ideas of those libertarian/anarcho-capitalist cyphertypes on the list, but 
who nevertheless also involve themselves with the mechanics and successful 
implementation of unbreakable crypto ("strongly voluntary", of course), I have 
wondered if they had thought much on what this would be making possible in the 
real world of future events, since it would involve such activities as Tim 
outlined - possibilities which their philosophical sympathies would 
compellingly induce them to call for strong controls against its widespread, 
easy employment.

TCM:  "In the view of some of us, strong crypto and the swirl of ideas called 
"crypto anarchy" will mean that the transactions people enter into are the ones 
they wish to enter into.
      ....
Indeed. And crypto anarchy will make this information liquid and widely
available, perhaps even stimulating the production of even more such data
by various means."


One thing I can think of, since crypto is supposed to level out the playing 
field, is that those who are aware of how this information is being got (the 
methods and means by which it is being obtained) will also have the means to 
communicate this information to those who have an interest (nay, a stake) in 
knowing about it.

[Conspiracy theories abounding.  This makes me think of a movie I saw once set 
in the French pre-revolutionary period, where Marquises and other mukkety-muks 
were at an elaborate evening dance.  Everyone was secretly passing around 
messages on little pieces of paper, each of which said "kill so& so".  It was 
an exciting, eventful evening.]

Another thought is that as people become more separated into individual 
self-reliance, they must develop other ideas, organizations, or means by which 
they may defend themselves from abuse.  That is, if they cannot rely on 
governments (as they come to realize that governments don't make much 
difference in terms of salvation), then individuals must become more 
imaginative over how they can defend themselves against those who are not so 
conscientious in upholding a sense of personal honor & moral rectitude.

Perhaps the new cyberage would assist in the spread of such ideas as well 
(perhaps even using the new mind-wave machines).

As people keep repeating, "May you live in interesting times."

  ..
Blanc





