From: daw@boston.CS.Berkeley.EDU (David A Wagner)
Date: Sun, 31 Dec 1995 14:45:36 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: [ecash] Re: Multi-issuer questions
Message-ID: <199512310504.AAA18856@bb.hks.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

I have to admit I don't know the ecash concepts well enough to respond
very intelligently to everything you talked about, though I'd like to
address one of your comments on inter-bank clearing.

I wanted to bring up one misconception: you mention that the main worth
of ecash is measured by whether merchants will accept it as payment,
and that whether a bank will accept it as a deposit is just a secondary
issue.  From this you conclude that so long as a merchant can validate
ecash (via online clearing, to detect double-spending), it doesn't really
matter whether that merchant's bank will accept the ecash -- just that
other merchants will accept the ecash.  This is brought up in the context
of "what if Bank B didn't accept [deposits of] ecash from Bank A?".

I claim that this is at best misleading, because with Digicash's ecash,
when a merchant receives ecash as payment, the ecash is "made out" to
that particular merchant, and is non-transferable-- i.e. can't be
used as payment to another merchant.  When you've been payed Digicash
ecash, about the only interesting thing you can do is deposit it with
your bank.

[ For simplicity, I'm ignoring wildcards in the "pay to" field; but
wildcards are insecure on their own.  Digicash hasn't really attempted
to support wildcards or transferable ecash in general, as far as I
can tell.  Correct me if I'm wrong. ]
- ---
[This message has been signed by an auto-signing service.  A valid signature
means only that it has been received at the address corresponding to the
signature and forwarded.]

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.6.2
Comment: Gratis auto-signing service

iQBFAwUBMOYZwCoZzwIn1bdtAQFvaQGA1f4oy6Z2TF9810fIUEqkktpQN01FPUCb
ER/q3WI/kuyjQCBJh/laA0QsU2q8jnP4
=8Mib
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----




