From: John Young <jya@pipeline.com>
Date: Thu, 28 Sep 95 06:15:39 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: 25 Crays a Year to Break STT
Message-ID: <199509281315.JAA11395@pipe4.nyc.pipeline.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


   Financial Times, September 28, 1995, p.1.


   Rivalry for Internet Security Grows

   By Louise Kehoe in San Francisco


   The Internet rivalry between Microsoft, the world's largest
   software company, and Netscape Communications increased
   yesterday when they announced competing encryption
   technology intended to ensure the security of financial
   transactions over the global computer network.

   Mr James Clark chairman of Netscape, the leading supplier
   of browser software that enables personal computer users to
   "surf" the Internet, also revealed the company had turned
   down a move by Microsoft to take a minority stake in
   Netscape earlier this year, before Netscape's public
   offering.

   Microsoft's encryption technology, developed with Visa
   International the credit card processing organisation, is
   intended to solve Internet security problems which have
   become a serious barrier to electronic commerce.

   Recent incidents, including the hacking of supposedly
   secure Internet software developed by Netscape, have
   heightened concerns about sending sensitive data such as
   credit card numbers over the Internet.

   Microsoft said its Secure Transaction Technology (STT), was
   designed to provide a much higher level of security for
   credit card transactions on the Internet. Netscape's
   general purpose encryption system uses a 40 or 128-bit
   electronic "key", while STT will use 2,000-bit keys.

   "By Christmas of 1996 you will be able to shop on the
   Internet to your heart's content, without even thinking
   about security," said Mr Warren Dent, Microsoft director of
   business development for consumer systems.

   Although no encryption system was totally secure, Mr Dent
   estimated it would take "25 Cray supercomputers a year" to
   break the STT codes.

   Netscape, however, said a new version of its Navigator
   software, which will become available next week will
   provide the same level of security. Netscape's "Secure
   Courier" technology has been developed in conjunction with
   MasterCard, Visa's credit card rival.

   To encourage widespread adoption of STT, Microsoft and Visa
   are making its technical specifications available at no
   charge to third parties to allow them to develop software.
   Netscape said Microsoft is expecting to charge transaction
   fees each time the STT technology is used.

   Commercial software products incorporating STT are expected
   to be available by April, Microsoft said. Netscape says
   Secure Courier will be available sooner.

   [End]












