From: truher@mojones.com (Joel B. Truher)
Date: Thu, 13 Jul 95 19:38:26 PDT
To: beta-testers@mojones.mojones.com
Subject: The MoJo Wire thanks you
Message-ID: <v02120d0eac2b65b1c651@[204.188.118.233]>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Thank you for your help in our beta test!  Please come back soon,
and send me mail if you'd like to be removed from this mailing
list -- we may send a new Web product announcement every few months,
and you'll soon receive a survey of your opinion of our site.

More info on The MoJo Wire:


             "More fun than a secret decoder ring!"
                               -- Jim Hightower

  "Mother Jones magazine is turning the tables [on Gingrich]"
                               -- LA Times

Mother Jones is pleased to announce the official release of our
redesigned WWW site, now called The MoJo Wire, on July 14th, at:

                    http://motherjones.com

* See Newt Gingrich's secret list of major funders on our "Coin-
  Operated Congress" feature.  Gingrich is fighting the FEC in
  court to keep this information secret, but you can see it here
  for the first time.  See the ten worst, the ten richest, the
  dirt on all of them, and help complete this interactive
  investigation project.

* Newly revamped on-line chat software, called Live Wire,
  provides the best Web-based political discussions anywhere.
  Create hyperlinks in the words of others in this new feature,
  which already contains several lively debates.

* The July/August issue of Mother Jones magazine is available
  only on The MoJo Wire.  Read the full text of the magazine.

Many thanks to our team of two thousand beta testers!  With your
help, we've worked a few of the last kinks out of the system,
added a few things, and now offer the service password-free.

For more information about The MoJo Wire, send mail to
truher@mojones.com, or call me at 415-665-6637.

Joel Truher
Manager, The MoJo Wire






