From: anonymous-remailer@shell.portal.com
Date: Thu, 9 Nov 1995 09:13:43 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: DejaNews all over again
Message-ID: <199511082306.PAA24448@jobe.shell.portal.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


On Wed, 8 Nov 1995, Perry E. Metzger wrote:

> anonymous-remailer@shell.portal.com writes:
> > I wish that Detweiler could (seriously) go back to wherever he came from. 
> 
> What a fascinating statement to make, considering that you are
> probably Detweiler.

Fascinating.  

First, I'm accused of being noted computer viral expert, 
Dr. Frederick B.  Cohen, (simply because he agrees with my assessment of
the critical algorithm flaw in Netscape Navigator) and now I'm accused of
perhaps being at the other end of the spectrum.  Of being Detweiler,
simply because he can take my signature and identity by signing an email,
as Alice de 'nonymous or simply accusing me of posting in his "style". 

I see that the character assassination sport continues, and I am now a
targetted.  Hunter become hunted.  I wonder why??  And why, by of all
people, Perry?  Is it perhaps because, I speak the truth, and the truth
makes people very, very nervous.  Is it because the flaw which is in the
Navigator product is woven into the code fabric, and can't be *fixed*. 

Afterall, Netscape (and AT&T) have had, over THREE WEEKS to work on this
problem or to make some form of public comment, and have done nothing, but
put some of their programmers -- unofficially ... speaking for myself ...
not speaking for the Company -- programmers on this list

Meanwhile people are having their PGP keyrings collected, their passwords
monitorred, and all of the information -- even information which they have
NOT posted to Usenet, information that is simply on their personal hard
drives, or on a private corporate network that is behind a firewall --
collected by anyone who actualy understands *how* to use Netscape
Navigator's standard features to do it. 

And so the question is: Why am I having my character asassinated while
this threat continues??  And while the loss and damage continues.  Why
are Netscape and AT&T not mitigating the damage?

Is it because what I say is simple common sense stripped of the veneer of
"technical language" and jargon??  And can't be *commented* on or *fixed*. 

Is this the fear which any truth teller faces, not only on the Internet,
but in any forum where they try to challenge Goliath. 

Maybe, that's one reason to post anonymously.

To clear the record definitively, I am neither Detweiler nor Dr.
Frederick B. Cohen, and I am not the issue.  I am simply myself, and I
will _reveal_ my identity to the international public once the timing
is appropriate.

If anyone wants to know who I am, they can contact the PR department
of AT&T or Netscape and ask.

(Their address can be requested from either postmaster@att.com or 
postmaster@netscape.com, respectively.)

Both companies have an email address for me, and would _likely_ *cough*
forward any email enquiries to me without any editing.  That way,
everything is done clearly and out in the open.  Nothing hidden, and
nothing private, and none of my comments will become "their sole property
to be used in their sole discretion". 

Neither company can accuse me of attacking them with daggers in the
dark of night, from behind a shield of anonymity, when I advocate
public open disclosure and commentary.




Alice de 'nonymous ...

                                  ...just another one of those...


P.S.  This post is in the public domain.
                  C.  S.  U.  M.  O.  C.  L.  U.  N.  E.





