From: John Young <jya@pipeline.com>
Date: Fri, 18 Aug 95 07:21:47 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: BUK_guv
Message-ID: <199508181421.KAA22725@pipe6.nyc.pipeline.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


   8-18-95. W$Japer:


   "Encryption-Software Plan Presented Using 'Keys' Held by
   Escrow Agents." [This is a variation on the Markoff article
   today, with a bit more.]

      Companies hoping to start selling stronger encryption
      products will have to wait a few months, since the
      administration has yet to sort out important details.
      For instance, one unresolved issue is how to certify
      escrow agents to keep fly-by-night operators and
      organized-crime figures out of the business. And the
      administration's emerging policy doesn't deal with
      data-security hardware -- products that wire the
      encryption schemes right into chips or other devices.
      Even with the export restrictions, U.S. officials
      haven't been able to stop widespread international
      distribution of an encryption program, called Pretty
      Good Privacy, that is nearly impossible to crack.


   "Seizure of Electronic Messages In Obscenity Case Raises
   Questions."

      Users of a small computer bulletin board in Ohio sued
      local authorities who seized their electronic mail and
      other materials as part of an investigation into obscene
      postings. In their lawsuit, which appears to be the
      first of its kind, the plaintiffs contend that the
      Hamilton County Regional Computer Crimes Task Force and
      other authorities violated their rights to free speech
      and privacy by seizing their messages during a June raid
      of five bulletin boards. The plaintiffs also allege
      that, by seizing their private electronic messages, the
      authorities violated the Electronic Communications
      Privacy Act.


   Double yolk: BUK_guv (about 11kb)












