From: iagoldbe@csclub.uwaterloo.ca (Ian Goldberg)
Date: Tue, 19 Sep 95 21:09:35 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: My Day
Message-ID: <43o44t$hof@calum.csclub.uwaterloo.ca>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Well, my brain's pretty frazzled about now (and I still have a pretty dense
paper on xFS to read and summarize for 9am tomorrow for my OS class) from
all the press that's gone after me today.
The ones I wrote down (I believe sameer wanted a list; I have names and
numbers for some of these, too, bt it was pretty hectic: get off the phone,
go to my terminal, note that I have 20 new mail messages from people wanting
interviews or info, and answer the phone because it's ringing again.):

NY Times
WS Journal
SF Chronicle
CNN (camera crew)
Marketplace (NPR)
SF Examiner
Kansas City Star
Chronicle of Higher Education
Boston Globe
Newsweek (or WiReD; it was Steven Levy)

and at least half a dozen more.  Not to mention the job offers, one call
that I couldn't decipher (it sounded like one of those AI's that you see
roaming the net every so often, only on the phone), and email in French
(je suis canadien, but I was still amazed I could understand it).

Sorry for the blathering, but that's how I feel just now.

BTW: the line we tended to stress was "public availability of source to
at least the security bits", but who knows how it will come out?

Holger.Reif@PrakInf.TU-Ilmenau.DE (Holger Reif ) was kind enough to
verify that the SunOS 4.1.3 version of Netscape generates its keys in
_exactly_ the same way as Solaris and HP-UX; he says he'll test other
architectures tomorrow.  I suspect any big-endian machine with the
lrand48() function (which is used in key generation on Solaris/HP-UX;
it's disguised in unssl.c as the macro mklcpr()) will be the same.
Other Unix flavours should require only minor changes.

I'm still interested in what Windoze clients do (other than lose).

   - Ian "So how _did_ Netscape's stock do today?"




