From: anonymous-remailer@shell.portal.com
Date: Sun, 27 Aug 95 01:38:11 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: nym server development mailing list
Message-ID: <199508270829.BAA15699@jobe.shell.portal.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


------- Forwarded Message

To: Remailer-Operators@c2.org
From: Bryan Strawser <feanor@anduin.gondolin.org>
Subject: Nym Server Development....
Date: Fri, 11 Aug 1995 21:04:22 -0500 (EST)

John Fleming, along with a bit of support help from myself, is developing
a nym server that he is intending to release to the public once we are
satisfied with the performance and the state of the code.

At this point and time, John has pushed the code to the point where we
have am experimental nym server operating that is being constantly
refined and features added. Along the same lines, I am presently
working on solid documentation for when the nymserver is ready for
public use, and for the later public release of the code.

John created a mailing list for those interesting in contributing to the
development of his nymserver and as a forum for discussion of nymserver
related issues.  So far, there have been few folks subscribed, and no
answer from those that are presently subscribed to the list.  I find
this rather disappointing.

This is your chance to get involved in developing this server.  There has
been alot of interest expressed in nymservers on this list previously,
as well from other folks that presnetly use the type I and II remailers
that are running today.  Just like the other types of anonymity out
there, a nymserver has many viable reasons for existance.  The lack of
publically available code for such a server, as there is for remailers,
should motivate us to get behind John and his efforts.

To subscribe to the nymserver development & discussion forum, send
a message to majordomo@sephiroth.org with the line "subscribe nyms
<your name>" in the body of the message.  Questions about the
nymserver should be directed to that list so that all can be involved
in the development.

Thanks for your input,

Bryan



- -- 
Bryan Strawser, Gondolin Technologies, Bloomington, IN USA        Remember Waco
feanor@gondolin.org                                            Live free or die

------- End of Forwarded Message





