From: anon-remailer@utopia.hacktic.nl (Anonymous)
Date: Sat, 9 Sep 95 22:13:09 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: not a flame please read and think about this
Message-ID: <199509100245.EAA09943@utopia.hacktic.nl>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



i know this is unpopular but i wish someone would respond the the points
rather than flaming me. pat farrel is the only one of you with the balz
to try to defend himself insead of attacking me. and you attack me for
being anon. i love it. cypherpunks yea right.

more of the indefensible. ive been keeping a list:

janet renos cypherpunk heros:

wei dai patents algorithms - for microsoft!!!!. that should
fucking help us a lot. whos he gonna sue first?

hey i think ill patent xor!!!! and give the patent to the nsa!!!

according to sci.crypt mat blaze can prove that clipper has no back
door. right. that sure helps us. david sternlights new hero.

pat farrel signs up with the nsa to make the key escrow rules easier
for us morons to understand. hey thanks. maybe theyll give you a
nicer room in the concentration kamp.

a whole shitload of socalled cypherpunks jumping over each other to help and
defend him.

brian davis trys to convinice us that key escrow isnt so bad (who signs your paycheck davie?????)

that guy from rand corp tells us words of wisdom from robert morris the nsa guy
as if we should write them down and pray three times a day to them.

carl elison designs key escrow for tis and acts like hes one of us.

bruce schneier is copyrighting crypt programs and
threatining to sue people who use it.

even phil zimmerman is selling the rights to pgp. what about all the people who contributed code (like me). not a dime for us because phil is famous
and your not alowed to say anythingn bad about him. sorry i forgot phil is god.
no one dares to complain. ask phil about me and when i asked about sharing
profits from the code i conrtibuted. also about the deal with
r.f...

by the way i am not the anonymous-remailer@shell.portal.com person who
toold farel to shut up. that was someone else. i dont think anyone should
shut up.
thats my point. i think we should talk about this in the open.
got it perry???


lets get back to being punks. fuck these traitors. do crypto and fuck the nsa.

an116512@anon.penet.fi




