From: hfinney@shell.portal.com
Date: Sun, 3 Sep 95 08:18:22 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Slightly faster checking for encrypted messages to me
Message-ID: <199509031517.IAA26595@jobe.shell.portal.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


One idea we have often discussed is to use a public message pool such
as a newsgroup or mailing list reflector as a means of receiving
messages anonymously.  Each message would be encrypted with my public
key (or that of my pseudonym), but with the identifying information
stripped.  Then I need to scan them all to see which ones are encrypted
to me.  Those are the ones which decrypt under the public key system to
a correctly padded session key.  Doing it this way eavesdroppers can't
even tell how much mail my nym is receiving.

The problem is that doing a PK decrypt is time consuming, and if we had
to do it to all the anonymous mail traffic in the world it could become
impractical.

I had hoped that Shamir's idea which I posted earlier would help with
this, but I can't see an application.  His idea helps to check for
specific signatures, which is a thing anyone can do, but he lets you do
it faster.  We need a faster way to do a check which only the holder of
the secret key can do.

I have thought of a small improvement based on Shamir's ideas, though.
Use Rabin encryption rather than RSA.  In this system the decryption
involves taking square roots.  This is done by taking the square root of
the ciphertext mod p and q (the two secret primes) and using the Chinese
Remainder Theorem to get the square root mod n.  (This is also done in
RSA with eth roots.)

If p and q are 3 mod 4, you can get the square root of x mod p as x^((p+1)/4)
mod p.  This is done for p and q and you then combine them.  So the
amount of work is pretty much the same as for RSA.

However a speedup is possible to do a quicker check for a validly formed
encrypted message.  The idea is that the encrypted message is of the form
M^2 mod n.  This means that it is a quadratic residue mod n, and also
therefore a q.r. mod p and q.  So the speedup is simply to check whether
it is a q.r. mod one of the primes and to reject it if not.  This takes
about half the amount of time to actually try the decryption.

All valid messages will pass the test, and half of the invalid messages
will be rejected.  So this is not very strong, but it is perhaps better
than nothing.  Maybe Shamir will come up with some idea for this
problem.

As I wrote before, testing for a q.r. is done by raising to the (p-1)/2
power mod p, and seeing if the answer is 1.  I think this can be done
in such a way that if it does come out to be 1 we can use our
intermediate results to calculate the (p+1)/4 needed for the square
root very quickly.

Also, BTW Rabin encryption is not specifically patented, only the
relatively-untested and almost-expired patent which covers all public
key systems (with the failed knapsack algorithm as its specific
embodiment) would supposedly prevent its use.  However even PKP is
apparently becoming more reluctant to throw its weight around on this
patent, while they are still quite possessive about RSA.  So perhaps a
migration to Rabin is in order.

Hal




