From: "Perry E. Metzger" <perry@imsi.com>
Date: Thu, 19 Jan 95 12:04:37 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: UUNET Customer Liaison: USENET "netiquette" Reminder
Message-ID: <9501192004.AA04647@snark.imsi.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



It would appear that UUNET does not consider themselves to be a common
carrier any more -- they now claim the right to cut sites off for
violating netiquette.

.pm

------- Forwarded Message

From: help@uunet.uu.net (UUNET Customer Liaison)
Message-Id: <QQxzjt24313.199501191826@odin.UU.NET>
Subject: USENET "netiquette" Reminder
To: news-subscribers@uunet.uu.net
Date: Thu, 19 Jan 1995 13:26:40 -0500 (EST)

Because of recent improper use by users on AlterNet sites we are
sending out this reminder to all sites currently subscribing to news.
If you have not reviewed the accepted USENET netiquette with your users
recently we strongly suggest you take this opportunity to do so.

Before you or your users post to USENET, please take the time to learn
the rules of the environment which you are entering.  Doing so can make
the difference between creating a good name for you and your company on
the Internet or a bad one.

Please read the postings contained in news.announce.newusers to
familiarize yourself with the etiquette of USENET.  This information
may also be obtained via anonymous FTP at UUNET's archive (ftp.uu.net)
in the directory /usenet/news.answers/news-newusers-intro.Z  UUCP
customers may obtain the file via UUCP.

It is your responsibility to ensure that the users on your system are
also aware of the proper guidelines for posting to USENET.

Improper use of "netiquette", the guidelines of the USENET community,
will be viewed as a violation of the rules of a network.  This is in
violation of your contract with UUNET/AlterNet and will likely result
in your a loss of news posting privileges for your site.

Tamara Bowman			help@uunet.uu.net
Manager Technical Support 	uunet!help
UUNET Technologies, Inc.


------- End of Forwarded Message





