From: jpp@markv.com
Date: Fri, 20 Jan 95 22:09:15 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: cpla mailing list revived
Message-ID: <9501202206.aa14003@hermix.markv.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


The quietness of the cpla list was brought to my attention recently.
I have improved the list software, changed the list address into a
real internet style mailing list.  You should now be able to be join
and depart the cpla mailing list automatically.  Who knows, this might
even prompt a physical get-together.

I will be adding the members of the old list to the new list, so
expect to get another copy of the welcome message if you were on the
cpla list a while ago.

Here is a copy of the welcome message, FYI.

Welcome to the Cypherpunks LA <cpla@markv.com> mailing list.

Like every moderator of every new list, I hope this will be mostly
signal and very little noise.  I don't envision this as a general
discussion list -- that's what the main list is for.

This list is for:

	Coordinating physical meetings of Cypherpunks in the Los
	Angeles area: Location, time, equipment, arranging rides,
	etc.

	Suggesting topics to cover at the meetings.

	Coordinating other local group activities.

	Announcements of relevant talks, seminars and other such
	goodies in the Los Angeles area and environs.

	*Concise* pointers to other local groups, mailing lists, and
	sources of information that might be of interest to local
	Cypherpunks.

	Whatever everyone seems to use it for.

This list is NOT for:

	Reposting the "important" messages from the main list or any
	other mailing list or newsgroup.  (If someone wants to run a
	"distilled" Cypherpunks list, fine.  This isn't it!)

	Preaching to the converted.  No ranting!  (If you want to
	rant, do it on the main list.  Everyone else seems to...)

	Rehashing the same topics that are going on the main list.

This list is now managed by a simple minded program.  Send a message
with a blank body and the subject 'subscribe' to be added to the
list.  The subject 'unsubscribe' will remove you from the list.

Any suggestions for how to improve this intro are welcome.  Any
suggestions for a *local* FAQ are also welcome.  Direct your
sugestions to me at jpp@markv.com.  PGP/ViaCrypt mail gladly
accepted.

This information is also available at
ftp://ftp.markv.com/pub/jpp/cp-la-hi.txt

j' <jpp@markv.com>




