From: rah@shipwright.com (Robert Hettinga)
Date: Thu, 5 Oct 95 18:31:50 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: (cpx) Mastercard, IBM, Netscape, CyberCash and GTE publish SEPP
Message-ID: <v02120d02ac9a33a0e5dd@[199.0.65.105]>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



--- begin forwarded text

To: e-payment@cc.bellcore.com, ietf-payments@cc.bellcore.com,
        www-buyinfo@allegra.att.com
Subject: Mastercard, IBM, Netscape, CyberCash and GTE publish SEPP
Mime-Version: 1.0
Date: Thu, 05 Oct 1995 16:12:23 -0400
From: Amir Herzberg <amir@watson.ibm.com>



MasterCard's Secure Electronic Payment Protocol is now available on the WWW at
http://www.mastercard.com/Sepp/sepptoc.htm (without the `l').

This protocol is based on iKP but includes much more details. You can download
it from the page above until we `re-hash' it into Internet Draft form.
Comments are very welcome, and I suggest we use the e-payment mailing list
for them (until an IETF working group is formed).

I believe that the publication of this spec and the STT spec suggests that
we should in fact proceed now with establishing a working group. So, I plan
to submit an updated charter soon... Comments on it are also welcome.

Best, Amir

Text version of the page:

Secure Electronic Payment Protocol Specification

The development of electronic commerce is at a critical juncture. Consumer
demand
for secure access to electronic shopping and other services is very high;
merchants
want simple, cost-effective methods for conducting electronic transactions;
financial
institutions want a level-playing field for software suppliers to ensure
quality
products at competitive prices. The next step to achieving secure,
cost-effective
on-line transactions at a rate fast enough to satisfy market demand, is the
development of a single, open industry specification.

The generally accepted process for developing a technical standard or
specification
within an industry is comprised of five steps:

   Collaboration of interested parties

   Preparation of the document

   Availability of the document for comment

   Modification of the document based on the comments

   Publication of the document for implementation.

In a effort to develop a specification for securing bankcard transactions over
the
Internet and other open networks, IBM, Netscape, GTE, CyberCash and MasterCard
have cooperatively developed the following draft document, which is now
available
for review and comment. Each company brought unique and valuable experience to
the effort.

The result of this collaboration is Secure Electronic Payment Protocol (SEPP)
an
open, vendor-neutral, non-proprietary, license-free specification for securing
on-line transactions. Currently in draft form, this document is available for
review
and comment by all interested parties. It also will be sent to Internet
standards-setting
bodies, including the Internet Engineering Task Force. Once comments are
received,
modifications will be made and a final document will be published in the public
domain.



Access to SEPP Specification

 This specification is structured in five files in order to make downloading
 easier:

 Preface: This file provides an overview of the entire SEPP document.

 Postscript (.Z), Postscript (.zip), Postscript (.hqx),
 Mac OS (Word 5.1[.hqx])

 If you'd like to browse just this part, Click Here.

 Part 1 - Business Requirements: This file defines the major business
 requirements for secure electronic payments.

 Postscript (.Z), Postscript (.zip), Postscript (.hqx),
 Mac OS (Word 5.1[.hqx])

 Part 2 - Functional Specification: This file contains the functional
 specification for the payment process and the certificate management system.

 Postscript (.Z), Postscript (.zip), Postscript (.hqx),
 Mac OS (Word 5.1[.hqx])

 Part 3 - Payment System Specification: This file defines the detailed design
 for the payment system.

 Postscript (.Z), Postscript (.zip), Postscript (.hqx),
 Mac OS (Word 5.1[.hqx])

 Part 4 - Certificate Management Specification: This file defines the detailed
 design for the Certificate Management System.

 Postscript (.Z), Postscript (.zip), Postscript (.hqx),
 Mac OS (Word 5.1[.hqx])

--- end forwarded text


-----------------
Robert Hettinga (rah@shipwright.com)
Shipwright Development Corporation, 44 Farquhar Street, Boston, MA 02131
USA (617) 323-7923
"Reality is not optional." --Thomas Sowell
>>>>Phree Phil: Email: zldf@clark.net  http://www.netresponse.com/zldf <<<<<






