From: shamrock@netcom.com (Lucky Green)
Date: Fri, 21 Jul 95 11:31:42 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Netscape the Big Win(dows)
Message-ID: <199507211829.OAA08315@bb.hks.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

In article <ac35228910021004fd83@[205.199.118.202]>, tcmay@sensemedia.net
(Timothy C. May) wrote:

>Out of curiousity, the phrase "grown out of Netscape," aside from the
>implied barb, means what? Just what am I missing and what do I need to
>"grow out of"?

Tim,
I won't presume to speak for Robert, but I can tell you this:

Netsacpe/Mosaic is an awsome program. It fundamentally changed the way I
use and access the net. 

Going from terminal emulation to the present version of Netscape, as you
have,  can not fail to impress an individual. This is similar to the awe
one might feel when going from a typewriter to a computer with MS Works
preinstalled. But we both know that MS Work is often not the best tool for
the job. It spreadsheet pales compared to Excel, its wordprocessor lacks
features, etc. Consequently, many people that buy a computer packaged with
Works end up replacing or augmenting Works with other, specialized,
programs that do a better job at many of the tasks that Works claims to
do.

Netscape is, in many regards, just like Works. It has a sub-standard
newsreader, a featureless mailer -- but a very nice browser. So many
people use Netscape for a browser and other programs for other tasks,
because other programs are better suited for it than Netscape.

When Robert mentioned that he was wondering how you would think about
Netscape in six months, he was perhaps thinking what most experienced Mac
using netsurfers know:

The various leading Mac Internet programs are excellent modular tools
that, thanks to cooperation between the various authors, are tighly
integrated. Often, the same key combinations that work in one progamm,
work in the other. They are small, they are fast, and they can call each
other. The only odd man out is Netscape, which tries to do it all by
itself and therefore does nothing right.

Once someone tries Anarchie for ftp, or one of the enhanced (current
leader seems to be Y.A.) Newswatchers for USENET, there is no going back
to just Netscape. 

I remeber writing here once that after someone tries surfing the Web with
Mosaic, there is no going back to just using lynx. The same holds true for
Anarchie, Newswatcher, Eudora -- and Netscape.

Let's talk in six months (no barb, just confidence that you will learn new
things as time goes by),

- -- 
- -- Lucky Green <mailto:shamrock@netcom.com>
   PGP encrypted mail preferred.
- ---
[This message has been signed by an auto-signing service.  A valid signature
means only that it has been received at the address corresponding to the
signature and forwarded.]

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.6.2
Comment: Gratis auto-signing service

iQBFAwUBMA/x6SoZzwIn1bdtAQGXNgGAm2v5m3S8rJ4UWOpWSR+JD6KU1zscjsEm
xU89gO9nuJzUXk5JbOM0EhAWc9bi/kER
=Nwn1
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----




