From: Adam Shostack <adam@homeport.org>
Date: Thu, 7 Dec 95 19:06:06 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com (Cypherpunks Mailing List)
Subject: Java musings
Message-ID: <199512080311.WAA02282@homeport.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text



Some musings on policies, threats and liabilities of Java, Livescript
and other downloadable applets.

I. Policies.

	The recent Livescript problem was predictable.  Building an
execution environment to safely handle all the myriad of tricks that
programmers will throw at it is not a simple or easy task.  People
will make mistakes in the design and execution of these environments.  

	Right now, many people are chasing the idea of applets; its
neat, sexy, and everyone wants in.  But, for many users, and many
environments, certain capabilities may be inappropriate.

	There has already been loud complaining in many forums about
the lack of site configurable Certification authorities, lack of site
control over Java features.  A site needs to be able to decide who to
trust, and who should be able to make these decisions, in a manner
that a user can not easily override.  The ease of configuration of
trust parameters in Netscape is neat for personal use, but
inappropriate for business.  When Java gets its ability to check
signatures, expect complaints about lack of site configuration of
trust hierarchies. (Yes, as opposed to web of trust.  As a bank, I
want to be able to control what code can run with a very explicit
hierarchy.)

	All applets are not created equal.

	All user requirements are not equal.

	Applets are not created equal.  Some are created in house to
do certain things, like watch the price of two stocks relative to one
another.  If an applet is created in house, signed off on by the
InfoSec people, then there's no reason (assuming strong integrity
checking) to deny it access to local disk, arbitrary network access,
etc.

	However, for various reasons (notably compartmentalization,
aka defense in depth), it is desirable to restrict disk (and possibly
network) access to certain addresses.  Something akin to chroot(),
tagging of packets outside the applications control to make firewall
filtering easy, filtering of available addresses to send to (only talk
on local subnet).  The ability to assign various levels of privilege
to code that runs on a virtual machine will be essential.  The ability
to limit these privileges must be reserved in some way to those with
site security responsibilities.   The security people, in turn, will
need the ability to delegate.

	This can perhaps be provided based on a least trusted basis.
Code starts out in a small, tight environment, with no access to
anything other than the (protected) processor, and a promote()
function which does authorization checking before granting new levels
of privileges in certain areas.

	Access to disk, access to local and remote network services,
and the ability to pull the browser to a new URL are all privileges
that should be orthogonally configurable, by site, by machine, or by
applet.

	All user requirements are not equal.

	This should be obvious.  Not all users need Java or
Livescript.  If a user is using Netscape to look at man pages, access
to Java and livescript is not very important.  Access to unsigned Java
applets may or may not meet the site security policy.  At home, I
might happily look at them.  In the office, I might have a very
different approach.

	A bank teller might need access to applets developed by the
bank for various things, but not need access to anything over the
internet.  He would need to be able to access the local lan servers.

	The need of users to get to different resources, and work
under different levels of protection calls out for mandatory strong
authentication in applets.  In other words, a better design might be
only execute applets with some (verified) signature attached to them.

	The language in which the applet was written is important.
More important is the ability of users and management to set policies,
and see those policies enforced by applications.  I could then set my
browser only to run Livescripts signed by someone I know (or an agency
that vets them for bugs), and only run Java with minimal trust in the
absence of signatures.



II.  Threats and liabilities


	A malicious applet, running amok on a machine, with the same
disk & network access as a user, can send off to the world anything it
thinks interesting.  However, there are times when letting an applet
at certain files, or giving it heavy network access, might be very
useful.

	I'll take as an example Anderson Consulting's demo
BargainFinder (http://bf.cstar.ac.com/bf/).  BargainFinder is a way to
search 9 music stores on the web for an album, with one form.  3 of
the stores are blocking the searches. In addition, a cypherpunk might
wonder if the searches and their origins are being logged.

	Thats not very useful for those of us who look forward to
perfect marketplace information for consumer goods.  Let me sketch
BargainFinder2, as powered by Java.  Instead of going to Anderson for
the page, you download BF to your local machine.  It does the
searching, same as BF1 did, but with no blocking possible.  You find
your CD at the best price.  Perhaps BF is rental-ware, perhaps its
someone advertising their Java coding skills.

	But its clear that this applet needs to be able to access the
network freely.  Its also plain that it won't be written for 6
platforms.  It might be written for Windows, but the Java market might
be larger still, and thus more attractive.  (Not to mention that the
network interface is mostly taken care of.  no Winsock version
worries.)

	Other applets, say a Ecash wallet manager that interfaces with
Quicken, needs access to your local disk, and needs to be able to
respond to incoming network queries from shops.

	Granular control of the access that applets have thus seems to
be needed.  Making Java 'secure' is not enough, because people will
'turn off' all the security to make one applet work.

	It might also be interesting to consider automatically
updating software, that can replace itself from time to time, after
verifying that a signature is correct.  Although, that does raise the
value of stealing a key from some well known, trusted applet vendor.

	To summarize, 'security' in the vauge sense that Java
promises, while useful, needs granularity to allow it to fulfill its
potential.

	Comments are welcome.

Adam



-- 
"It is seldom that liberty of any kind is lost all at once."
					               -Hume




