From: "Mr. Boffo" <mixmaster@vishnu.alias.net>
Date: Fri, 15 Dec 1995 11:21:52 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: [NOISE] The Enquirer
Message-ID: <199512140350.VAA20825@vishnu.alias.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


			THE CYPHERPUNK ENQUIRER

                   "Encyphering minds want to know."


The Podunk, Idaho Cypherpunks chapter held its annual meeting this past
weekend at Buffalo Jim's Bar and Grill, where the sole attending member,
Frank Semalo, was promptly arrested by local authorities for wearing a
"munitions" T-shirt.  He was released the next morning when the NSA confirmed
that the T-shirt was probably legal to wear in Podunk as long as Mr. Semalo
did not enter the local Mexican or Chinese restaurants.

By a 17-13 vote today, the Remailer Operators Association decided to start
sending out ALL anonymous remailer e-mail with a header entry of:
From: Alice de 'nonymous.

Surgeons at Netscape Communications successfully removed Jim Clark's foot
from his mouth today.  The foot was reported to be doing fine, but a little
wrinkled and in need of a good pedicure.  Company spokespersons reported
that the reason the foot was in there so long was that Mr. Clark was in
Washington, D.C. discussing the future of government regulation of the 
Internet with 'top government officials', and could not return to Mountain
View for surgery until recently.  In related medical news, proctologists at 
Bethesda Naval Hospital reported that Louis Freeh's head was still
firmly stuck.

Spam of the month:  Friend

The International Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals announced
today that it was investigating the Blue Wave Corporation to determine if
any of the snakes were harmed or killed in the production of its signature
product, SimplySafe.

Just a coincidence?  Immediately after Tim May announces that he will not
be discussing Netscape anymore because he's making some financial plays on
the stock (hinting that he's probably shorting it), it drops 30 points?  






