From: John Pettitt <jpp@software.net>
Date: Thu, 28 Dec 1995 12:19:18 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: FYI - telecom bill or not there are still censors
Message-ID: <2.2.32.19951227172007.0070f34c@mail.software.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


This arrived in my mailbox (I have *not* personally confirmed it) ....

According to reports popping up in other places around the Compuserve 
Information Service it appears that they have taken a stance of Internet 
censor and are now blocking access to certain Usenet newsgroups.  This 
move took place just before the Christmas holiday and remains unannounced 
to the membership/subscriber base.  

Just about any Usenet newsgroup with the word "sex" or "erotica" are no 
longer available. Attempts to subscribe to these newsgroups produces an 
error message stating that the newsgroup does not exist.  In reality its 
access has been blocked.

A short list (very short) of other newsgroup feeds that are no longer 
accessible as provided by another party to me include:

alt.homosexual
alt.magick.sex
alt.magick.sex.angst
alt.motss.bisexua-l
alt.politics.sex
alt.recovery.addiction.sexual
alt.recovery.sexual-addiction
alt.religion.sexuality
alt.sex
alt.support.disabled.sexuality
clari.news.crime.sex
clari.news.gays
clari.news.sex
gay-net.coming-out
rec.arts.erotica
shamash.gayjews
soc.support.youth.gay-lesbian-bi

Other newsgroups also remain blocked or eliminated from a provided 
pick-list and if this is allowed to continue the likelihood of this 
spreading to other topics that a select group find offensive or 
intolerable is a very real threat.

A number of these newsgroups are legitimate groups for people needing 
support or recovery or places where frank discussions on adult subjects 
take place.  Some are religious in nature though non-mainstream.  Others 
are associated with the gay lifestyle.  As you can see there is a 
definite trend being set here.

So far much of this change in access remains unknown to the vast majority 
of Compuserve customers who remain away from their terminals for the 
holidays.

If this bothers you I would suggest that you send a message to Compuserve 
customer services at GO FEEDBACK.  Those using autopilot programs send 
e-mail to Feedback at 70006,101.  From outside of Compuserve send e-mail 
to 70006.101@compuserve.com

We are supposedly paying a monthly fee which includes =full= Internet 
service and access.  We are no longer getting it.  That is 
misrepresentation.

Take this issue to your other favorite forums, newsgroups, etc.  If we 
allow freedom of speech and access to be lost now we will never get it 
back.





