From: John Young <jya@pipeline.com>
Date: Mon, 31 Jul 95 12:10:31 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: LOG_rol
Message-ID: <199507311910.PAA20121@pipe1.nyc.pipeline.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


   7-31-95.  NYPaper shredder Windows 95 confetti:


   "Windows of Opportunity for Microsoft."

      Windows 95 is already creating a stir in markets
      worldwide, in Washington and on Wall Street. The
      marketing squad is armed with a $150 million budget to
      help their new product become the most successful in
      computer software history.                     NYT_myr


   "The Customers: Computer Users Told To Go Slow in Change Of
   Operating Systems."

      "There aren't too many reasons to change right now." For
      Mr. Mott's clients, some of whom have hundreds of PC's,
      changing to the new operating system would be disruptive
      and expensive and fraught with the minor technical
      glitches common in the first iteration of any
      software.                                      WOA_nag


   "The Rival: Bracing for a Microsoft Onslaught, Apple Sees
   No reason to Panic."

      A growing chorus of pundits and Wall Street analysts has
      zeroed in on Apple as the biggest potential loser in the
      wake of the introduction of Windows 95. There is another
      view within the industry, however, that holds that the
      computer maker is not in danger.               APE_duk


   "On The Net: The real significance of Windows 95 is
   reaching the Web with a single click of the mouse."

      The real significance of Windows 95 is as a distribution
      vehicle for a simple icon, or symbol, on the computer
      screen. With the icon, the user connects to the MSN, and
      from there to the Internet. And that is where the real
      money lies.                                    RER_edg


   "Haven't heard of Windows 95? Where have you been hiding?"

      To introduce Windows 95, the Microsoft Corporation is
      amassing almost every weapon in the advertising arsenal,
      like teaser ads to entice consumers into anticipating
      the computer operating system as much as a Super Bowl or
      a birthday party.                              SOP_sud


   5 ez: LOG_rol











