From: tcmay@got.net (Timothy C. May)
Date: Wed, 20 Sep 95 20:45:17 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re: Project: a standard cell random number generator
Message-ID: <ac86115235021004fbe4@[205.199.118.202]>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


At 9:50 PM 9/20/95, John Gilmore wrote:
>Software-generated random numbers are likely to be of poor quality.
>There just isn't that much true randomness visible to computers.
>Several ways to build good hardware random number generators are
>known.  But before hardware random number generators can be
>incorporated into common desktop computers, someone will have to put
>them into a small fraction of a chip.

Essentially, to have good market penetration, this means building a small
hardware random number generator into the Pentium, and a few other popular
processors. Building it into a separate chip is ineffective, as chip counts
are going down on motherboards. (Some may quibble, but clearly about 60-80%
of the market is now x86-based, with motherboards supplied by a limited
number of companies, and with "chipsets" like the Triton.)

What would it take to convince Intel, then, to devote resources to put a
HRNG module on, say, future versions of the Pentium, Pentium Pro (P6),
etc.? A lot, I'd say.

First, Intel will ask what products would gain from _some_ hardware
platforms having HRNG when the majority will not. (This is important,
because it means that as long as there are vast numbers of 486-, Pentium-,
SPARC-, MIPS-, 68K-, and PPC-based systems out there that DON'T have
hardware random number generators, then Netscape and other suppliers of
software CANNOT COUNT ON THE HRNG.

This is an important point: a hardware RNG standard will take many years to
percolate into the installed base and reach a level of penetration where
even 30% of all machines are equipped with HRNG modules. In the meantime,
Netscape and everyone else has to come up with solutions which fit the
existing and nearterm-available machines.

Second, how much extra will customers pay? Even if the area of the HRNG is
less than 1% of the total, design resources are consumed and potential
reliability and liablility issues arise. (Liability is problematic
precisely because the HRNG is nondeterministic, and some chips are likely
to be "more random" (which is "good") than others which are "less random"
(which is "bad"). Imagine a customer having a chip which he finds out
produces very little entropy, for technical/manufacturing reasons.


>You probably can't build a hardware random number generator out of
>existing "gate array" gates or "standard cell" cells, because all the
>existing gates and cells are designed to behave completely
>predictably!  It will take designing a new circuit structure.

You probably can, actually. CMOS and BiCMOS have all sorts of structures in
which threshold voltages can be measured. DRAM arrays have various
seemingly-random (*) discharge characteristics. Zener diodes can be built
in any of these technologies. At small enough structural levels, such as we
are now seeing at the .35 micron level and below, noise is omnipresent, and
is dealt with in various ways. Thus, using the noise is not so difficult.

(* The various charge/discharge characteristics are actually not random, of
course, and are reproducible. But with care they can be used to increase
the entropy of other soources. Care must be taken.)


>Do we know any solid state physics / circuit design experts who think
>this might be a fun thing to do?  I bet you could get a paper out of
>it.  And probably improve the world a few years later, when companies
>used your paper to close another hole in their computer security.

I'm skeptical for the reasons given above. Even starting today, far too
long to get enough out there. (Far-future thinkers will say, "Then let's
start now," but it still is not true that companies like Netscape or
Verisign will use such an invention to close another hole...they could only
close the hole for the customers who had the HRNG-equipped machines, and
this is not likely to be enough for quite some time.

As John knows, but others may not, I worked on random noise effects in
devices at Intel. A co-worker (now President of IC Works, Ilbok Lee) and I
developed a hardware random number generator based on very low level
radiation sources, using an effect I discovered. We tried to get a patent
on it, in 1978, but there was no interest by Intel.

Personally, I think that "software + user actions + environment stuff" can
generate vast amounts of usable entropy, especially if a user lets it
accumulate immediately prior to generating crypto material.

* Software -- the standard cryptographic hash functions to "mix" bits even
further.

* User Actions -- mouse movements, keyboard timing, microphone noise, etc.

* Environmental Stuff -- measurement of disk access timings, in
milliseconds, amount of free blocks, Ethernet packet stuff, etc. (This may
or may not be good for more than a few bits per second, but can be
accumulated for several minutes or hours.)

Any of these has various weaknesses and points of attack. But let's face
it, would Golberg and Wagner have been able to crack Netscape if the PRNG
had used some mouse swirling, some random keyboard pounding, some disk
access measurements, and had then hashed this with a noninvertible hash
function? I think not.

This approach has the benefit of working almost immediately, without
special dongles on the back of machines or of convincing Intel and Motorola
to add special functions (which would take years to effectively penetrate
the market).

--Tim May

---------:---------:---------:---------:---------:---------:---------:----
Timothy C. May              | Crypto Anarchy: encryption, digital money,
tcmay@got.net  408-728-0152 | anonymous networks, digital pseudonyms, zero
Corralitos, CA              | knowledge, reputations, information markets,
Higher Power: 2^756839      | black markets, collapse of governments.
"National borders are just speed bumps on the information superhighway."





