From: Philip Zimmermann <prz@acm.org>
Date: Sat, 29 Jul 95 13:15:31 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com (Cypherpunks)
Subject: The little sex kitten -- untrue story
Message-ID: <199507292010.UAA10501@maalox>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text


I posted this funny story to cypherpunks earlier today after someone
emailed it to me.  Now I am told the the story is false.  There are no
court records of such a case.  And it apparantly was posted to the net
(maybe to cypherpunks) months ago, and it was shown to be false.  I should
have checked it out before posting it to a public newsgroup.  Sorry about
that.  How embarrassing.  Well, it still has entertainment value, as long
as it's clearly labeled as fiction.

 -Philip Zimmermann

Date: Thu, 27 Jul 1995 13:53:02 -0400
Subject: The little sex kitten

JUDGE RULES ON E-MAIL PRIVACY CASE

TULSA, OKLA -- The Oklahoma Supreme Court has ruled on a case that many
legal experts believe clearly delineates the e-mail privacy rights of
computer users in the workplace.  Judge Stan Musing declared that employees
have a right to expect that their empolyers will refrain from monitoring
e-mail messages transmitted on company systems.  The case went to court
after programmer Augustus Lindsey's supervisor monitored his e-mail and
intercepted a message from Lindsey to a colleague.  The message read:
"That little sex kitten has been driving me wild.  She's moaning and begging
for it every minute.  Last night I was afraid someone would hear, and we'd
be thrown out of the building.  But don't worry -- all is arranged.
Wednesday she gets the knife".  Lindsey's supervisor alerted authorities,
suspecting that a crime was in the making.  Lindsey was arrested on the spot
and spent an uncomfortable night discussing the situation with the police. 
However, he was released in the morning, just in time to get his female 
cat to the vet for spaying.  Lindsey sued his boss for invasion of privacy 
and sought punitive damages as well.

----



