From: hugh@ecotone.toad.com (Hugh Daniel)
Date: Wed, 8 Feb 95 18:19:01 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Meeting Anncouncement for Sat. Feb. 11 1995 SF Bay Area Meeting
Message-ID: <9502090217.AA09964@ecotone.toad.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



What:	Cypherpunks SF Bay Area Physical Meeting
When:	13:00 February 11 1995
Where:	Silicon Graphics, Inc.,  Building 5 (SGI's Iris Cafeteria)
	2025 North Shoreline Boulevard, Mountain View, CA, Earth, Sol, MW

Topic:	Crypto Networking Protocol Hygiene

Agenda:  (listed times are almost all a joke)
  12:00	Brown Bag Lunches, AV Debugging, Loose Talk
  13:00	Meeting Begins (MBONE broadcast begins)
  13:02	Meeting Announcements, Agenda Rewrite
  13:08	Hugh Daniel on
  	"When What Goes Where: Good Networking Protocol Hygiene"
  13:45	Eric Hughes on
	"Sendmail as a Multiplexor"
  14:30 Michael Sattler on
	"Announcement of CryptDisk v1.0"
  14:40	General Announcements, Questions, Confusion etc.
  15:00	BREAK!
  15:30	Doug Barnes
        "Stream-oriented, analysis-resistant public-key protocols over UDP"
  16:15 Raph Levien & KT Kislitzin on
	"Design philosophy for the upcomming PGP 3.0 API"
  17:00	Hot New Topics of the Week & General Free For All!
  17:59 Mbone Broadcast ends
  18:00	KP room, Thank our SGI hosts & GOTO Dinner

Presentations:

"When What Goes Where: Good Networking Protocol Hygiene"
	Hugh Daniel <hugh@toad.com>
  When designing, coding and testing programs we are confronted with a
myriad of choices as to how various parts of the solution communicate.
Much is known about how to design 'protocols' that are flexible,
debugable & robust.
  We are currently encoding cryptographic protocols in our systems and
networks at a furious rate, yet there are new challenges in keeping such
systems robust, secure and sometimes even anonymous.
  I hope to touch on some of the well known tricks and dangers, what
is new when cryptographic and anonymous systems are combined with
todays systems and where we might learn from the past.
  

"Sendmail as a Multiplexor."
           Eric Hughes <eric@remailer.net>
  The basic architecture of sendmail is a recognizer and a dispatcher.
These two elements provide a good framework for designing systems that
can be changed piece by piece.  Even when a facility seems to have
stabilized, it's often a good idea to keep the flexible framework
around for future experimentation and expansion.


"Announcement of CryptDisk v1.0"
	Michael Sattler <msattler@jungle.com>
  CryptDisk (for the Macintosh) is an example of the kinds of [mostly]
transparent strong crypto that we need.  Integrated smoothly with the
operating system, CryptDisk provides IDEA encryption on a block
read/write level for a virtual hard disk.  It's beauty lies mainly in
that it does exactly what the user expects and requires no more setup
than remembering a pass-phrase.  Source code is available upon
request.  Warning:  Some governments might consider this software a
"Munition", not suitable for "private possession" by free peoples.


"Stream-oriented, analysis-resistant public-key protocols over UDP"
	Doug Barnes <dab@Tadpole.COM>
  Many cypherpunks projects have a need to reliably transmit
variable-length (sometimes quite long) data over unreliable
networks. TCP lends itself to traffic analysis and is not well-suited
for use in a hypothetical system of packet laundries that would lead
to packets within a particular stream appearing to come from a variety
of sources.  We have designed and are currently implementing a
UDP-based, hidden-streams protocol that utilizes fixed-length blocks
and pseudo-random sequence numbering to provide reliable,
stream-oriented services to higher-level applications despite
extremely creative routing and laundering of packets.

Raph Levien <raph@netcom.com> & KT Kislitzin <ktk@sgi.com>
	"Design philosophy for the upcomming PGP 3.0 API"
  PGP is getting a major upgrade soon, some of the team doing the
work will talk about the motivations and directions the work is
going in.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------





