From: mpd@netcom.com (Mike Duvos)
Date: Mon, 23 Jan 95 08:15:05 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Writer Sets Sights on Net
Message-ID: <199501231613.IAA22198@netcom11.netcom.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


I noticed the following solicitation mini-spamming its way into
a number of newsgroups yesterday.  Looks like yet another person
plans a lurid expose of online services, BBS systems, and the Net.

------

From: FMGG44A@prodigy.com (Jerome Haden)
Subject: Writer Seeks On-Line Crime Info

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION

I am currently writing a book length manuscript entitled :

"Crash and Burn:
A Parents Guide To The Dangers On The Information SuperHighway."

I am seeking real events that are "public record" either
newspaper articles or court documents which involve the following
criminal activity:

1.) Sexual predators who have commited sex crimes on minors with
a connection to a local computer bulletin board or a national
on-line service such as Prodigy, Compuserve, or America On Line.

2.) Teenage computer hackers who have been charged with any type
of telephone fraud, unauthorized access to another computer, or
similar crimes.

3.) Any teenagers involved in making explosives with information
obtained from a computer bulletin board.

4.) Any selling of illegal drugs involving minors on a computer
bulletin board.

5.) Any other crimes invloving teenagers as either victims or
perpetrators with the use of modems or any manner in
"cyberspace".

Any information must be a public record that can be verified by
my literary agency and my publisher.

Also would be interested in hearing from victims or perpetrators
willing to be interviewed "off the record", and/or willing to
appear on national talk shows.

If you have any such information please contact me as follows:

Jerome Haden
E-Mail: FMGG44A@prodigy.com

-- 
     Mike Duvos         $    PGP 2.6 Public Key available     $
     mpd@netcom.com     $    via Finger.                      $




