From: "E. ALLEN SMITH" <EALLENSMITH@ocelot.Rutgers.EDU>
Date: Sat, 30 Dec 1995 07:47:23 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: "Cybercrime" Article from Reuters
Message-ID: <01HZDS4NA1PC8Y55Y6@mbcl.rutgers.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


	Most of what they claim to be looking for is stuff that most people
won't object to their countering. Still, if anyone spots a government agency
offering an "informant" email address, posting it so that we can send them lots
of stuff (i.e., all the "Make Money Fast" pyramid schemes) would seem to be a
good thing to do... it should occupy them so that they're doing things that are
useful.
	Cypherpunks relevance? Well, there is the mention of anonymnity.
	-Allen

Reuters New Media
   
   _ Thursday December 28 6:31 AM EST _
   
Authorities Patrolling Cyberspace for Crime

   WASHINGTON (Reuter) - Crime on the Internet is now more than just
   dirty pictures.
   
   With millions of people and a fast-growing commercial presence in
   cyberspace, federal law enforcement authorities are struggling to
   crack down on wrongdoing in the new territory.
   
   They are hunting for bogus get-rich-quick schemes, weight-loss
   miracles, AIDS cures, credit-repair programs, investment scams and
   gambling. That's in addition to crimes such as trafficking in child
   pornography.
   
   ``The scams are the same. The way you investigate them is different,''
   said Lucy Morris, assistant director for credit practices at the
   Federal Trade Commission, which has staff attorneys monitoring the
   Internet.
   
   Just as they would on the street, these ``cybercops'' act on tips or
   they just patrol. The potential crime scenes are the Internet
   worldwide computer network, computer online services such as America
   Online and smaller computer bulletin boards.
   
   Cruising cyberspace as part of their work are employees with the FTC,
   the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Department of
   Transportation, the Secret Service, state attorneys general and state
   securities regulators.
   
   They can work at the office or from home.
   
   ``In some respects it's easier to find the violations because you
   don't have to leave the office,'' said Minnesota Deputy Attorney
   General Tom Pursell.
   
   But there are obstacles.
   
   Cyberspace offers criminals wonderful anonymity and law officers face
   ambiguous jurisdiction issues due to the global nature of the
   Internet, raising questions about whether new laws are needed to cope
   with the new medium.
   
   ``Now all you need is a computer, a telephone, a little bit of
   software, and you're in business,'' said Hubert Humphrey III, the
   attorney general of Minnesota who himself prowls cyberspace in search
   of wrongdoing.
   
   Authorities agree they have their work cut out. ``It's going to be
   very difficult,'' predicted Humphrey, whose state has been out front
   in tracking down wrongdoing.




