From: John Young <jya@pipeline.com>
Date: Tue, 21 Nov 1995 10:35:53 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: HOR_mel
Message-ID: <199511201509.KAA03155@pipe4.nyc.pipeline.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


   11-20-95. Washrag:


   "It's the Spam You Read That's Making Many Interneters
   Queasy."

      It's squarely at odds with Internet culture. And an on-
      line mass mailer is drafting a lawsuit against a
      spammer, advised by Stewart A. Baker, former general
      counsel to the NSA. Having taken plenty of flak on the
      Internet for defending a Clinton administration proposal
      on encryption, Baker is pleased to be working on an
      issue so dear to the heart of the 'Net community. "It's
      not every day that you come to the office humming a
      tune," Baker said. "But working on this case, I do."


   11-20-95. W$Joker:

   "Why Many Businesses Can't Keep Their Secrets."

      Personal computers are the biggest contributors to the
      security headaches of companies. "Computer technology
      has enhanced the control and power of the individual
      employee to a level that transcends what was customary
      in the traditional workplace." Many experts see a
      correlation between recent leaks and the decline in
      workers' loyalty to employers, falling job security and
      increased workloads. The media have played a part as
      well by becoming more aggressive over the past three
      decades about challenging institutions and exposing
      scandal. This makes it "more possible for an employee to
      have his 15 minutes of fame" by waving his boss's
      victorias.

      Just what suffices legally as a reasonable precaution in
      a frontier developing as rapidly as computer technology
      isn't clear yet. For instance, requiring passwords for
      access to a computer system, once considered a
      reasonable precaution, now isn't enough. That's why
      consultants are recommending periodic internal audits to
      test for computer-system penetration and compliance with
      documented security policies.


   2: HOR_mel  (14 kb)












