From: "E. ALLEN SMITH" <EALLENSMITH@ocelot.Rutgers.EDU>
Date: Sat, 30 Dec 1995 07:51:53 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Telecom Bill Rewrite
Message-ID: <01HZDSQB7MJ48Y55Y6@mbcl.rutgers.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


	It looks like some political pressure will still be possible.
Definitely good news, especially since most of the methods for receiving
"banned groups" listed in the FAQ are through US sites.
	-Allen
 
   Reuters New Media
   
   _ Friday December 29 5:51 AM EST _
   
Dole, Gingrich Unhappy with Telecom Bill
   
   WASHINGTON (Reuter) - Top House and Senate Republican leaders
   expressed unhappiness Thursday with a proposed rewrite of the nation's
   communications laws amid signs the Republicans may seek changes in
   legislation circulating on Capitol Hill.
   
   ``There are a number of problems in the bill that could have been
   resolved in a different way,'' Senate Majority Leader Robert Dole told
   a news conference.
   
   The Kansas Republican, appearing with House Speaker Newt Gingrich,
   said there are ``three, or four, or five provisions'' GOP leaders
   ought to focus on, including what he described as a ``giveway'' of a
   key part of the airwaves to broadcasters.
   
   The plan worked out by congressional negotiators proposes that in the
   future, when the government doles out licenses for high-definition
   digital TV, the Federal Communications Commission ``should'' limit
   eligibility to existing broadcasters.
   
   Critics have charged this would amount to a multibillion dollar
   giveaway of the airwaves to the broadcast industry and that the
   government could instead raise as much as $70 billion through a
   competitive auction of the digital spectrum.
   
   Last week it appeared the White House and congressional leaders had
   reached agreement on legislation to overhaul the 61-year-old
   communications laws, following weeks of work by House and Senate
   negotiators.
   
   The plan would tear down decades-old laws and permit telephone, cable
   and broadcast companies to invade each other's turf.
   
   But after Vice President Al Gore and some congressional leaders said
   they had achieved an accord, other Republicans began to balk at the
   proposal, saying no deal had been struck.
   
   The protests scuttled any chance the telecommunications bill would be
   completed this year.
   
   Among other things, Republicans expressed dissatisfaction with
   provisions to ease restrictions on the number of TV stations
   broadcasters could own, saying the plan did not go far enough.
   
   They also cited issues such as regulation of the Internet and a
   decision to drop language permitting greater foreign investment in
   telecommunications.




