From: Hal <hfinney@shell.portal.com>
Date: Fri, 29 Dec 1995 15:37:40 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Re:  blind validation
Message-ID: <199512290144.RAA28654@jobe.shell.portal.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Those are very interesting thoughts Alex Strasheim posted about
blind validations.  The issue of people handing out copies of their
validations ("credentials" is the term Chaum uses) can be significant.

Chaum's way around it was basically to have some mechanism to give
each person a unique number of some special form.  There doesn't have
to be any agency who knows what number each person has (in fact, there
isn't, in his scheme), but there is a mechanism to assure that one
person does not get two numbers.  This is sometimes loosely referred to
as an "is-a-person" credential (although in this specific context it is
not actually a credential, just an identifier).

One way to achieve the goal would be to make each person give a
thumbprint, or some other biometric identification, in exchange for
giving them the is-a-person credential.  Another way would be to use
conventional ID, making sure their credential is blinded.

Then, the blind validations are mathematically structured to be linked to
the identity number.  Only someone who has a specific identity number can
show a specific blind validation.

The idea here is that this addresses the copying-validation problem
because a person would not only have to give away the specific
validation, but also his identity number.  This would in effect let the
other person masquerade as the first, and any bad things he did would
come back to hurt the person who gave away the data.  You can't just walk
away as in a totally uncontrolled blind signature system because of the
linked nature of the credentials, and because you only get one identity
number.

So the result in effect is to make it difficult to give away just a
validation, without also giving away the ability to act as you.  Here
is an idea about another way to achieve the same thing, closer to
Alex's example:  Alice gets a blind validation as Alex describes based
on a simple blind signature.  (Alice hands a blinded number to Bob, he
signs it, Alice unblinds it, and uses the resulting signed number as
the validation to, say, access Bob's files.)  We add that Alice puts,
say, $100 into "escrow", encrypting it with the secret number and
putting it on some public server.  She proves to Bob that she has done
this using cut and choose.

Now if Alice gives away her secret number, anyone using it will be able
to access Bob's files, but they can also get the $100.  So now it costs
something for Alice to give away her secret.

(There are some major problems with this idea, the worst being that Alice
can extract and spend the $100 right after proving to Bob that she is
doing what she said, and before publishing her number.  Maybe someone
could think of some fixes.)

Hal




