From: Insomnia Gallumbits <cactus@hks.net>
Date: Thu, 19 Jan 95 15:01:58 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Status of GUCAPI
Message-ID: <199501192306.SAA16798@bb.hks.net>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----


I'm just about done with the first part of my crypto library, the
internal generalized I/O, and largely done with the framework for the
encoding rules.  Since I haven't fully outlined what I'm doing here,
I thought I'd mention the outline in the hopes of getting some real
feedback and perhaps some random snipets of code.

In essence, what I'm building is a crypto library that takes a very general
approach with a few parameters controlling its behavior.  The idea is
to have something that anybody can drop into their mail agent and have
an easy way of using crypto and interface with existing systems such as
PGP.  A major design goal is to be backwards compatable with PGP, but
paramount is having a plug-and-play library that will be flexible enough
to meet future crypto needs.

One of the biggest problems today is that crypto libraries are chiselled out
to deal with very specific cases -- the most general I know of if is RSAREF,
which AFAIK only supports BER/DER for encoding and RSA and DES/CBC for 
encryption.  I'll grow more clueful on that, and other crypto and key
management issues, as I get to actually working on them.

The things that I've parametrized in the design are:

	- Type of I/O.  Right now, files (and fds) and a couple of memory
	 configurations	are supported.  I've made it trivial to add new
	 types of I/O as well, and there are flags to support to
	 immediate zeroing of data once it is read into the internal
	 structures.

	- Encoding of data.  There are multiple ways to encode a bytestream
	 and these methods can be nested.  For example, PGP, MIME, and
	 uuencode use their own formats.  In this library, you can specify
	 the type.  I also want to eventually put logic in (where possible)
	 to determine the type and will also use this to support various
	 compression schemes.

	- Ciphers (this is the big one).  Right now, as I've mentioned,
	 things are very haphazard.  What I want is a way to change one
	 parameter from, for example, CRTYPE_IDEA to CRTYPE_DES and
	 thus change the encryption scheme.

	- Key management.  I know of two major ways of doing things
	 right now, X.509/PEM certificates as pushed by RSADSI, and
	 PGP web-of-trust.  As far as I can tell, PEM-style certificates
	 are just a degenerate case of PGP web-of-trust.

	- Random sources.  People should be offered a pretty good source
	 of random numbers, but should also be allowed to drop in their
	 own sources.  This is going to be relatively tough on platforms
	 I don't know much about, IE Mac and PC, but I'm hoping for some
	 help on this.  I can also salvage some code from RIPEM for those.

	- Autoconfiguration to incoming messages.  People should be
	 able to open a file and have it work, even with schema added
	 to the library after the original adaption to GUCAPI.

There's some other stuff that I'm probably forgetting here, but that's
the gist of it.  The cipher code is going to be pretty simple: I'm
getting a lot of code from various places on the net;  the code exists,
it just isn't put into a form that is easy to use.  The most difficult is
going to be a generalized scheme for key management: first off, I'm probably
going to simply use PGP's web-of-trust as my model, assuming the X.509/PEM
style certificates can be treated as degenerate cases of web of trust.

I also intend to offer a GSSAPI interface to all of this, as seems
appropriate when I get to it.

This is so far all in C: I'm not a C++ convert yet and C is still the
most portable of the languages about.  Later, perhaps class libraries
can be designed around the same code.

Thoughts?  Am I wasting my time, or is this a worthwhile pursuit?
And should I find a better name than GUCAPI?

	-- Todd
- ---
[This message has been signed by an auto-signing service.  A valid signature
means only that it has been received at the address corresponding to the
signature and forwarded.]

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.6.2
Comment: Gratis auto-signing service

iQBFAwUBLx7wfCoZzwIn1bdtAQGIWAF9GgY29Qop9p1TEryO3oe/cFUyyBAJQtp7
yPGjEDyCvk/vtLHTAxhQoMTE98MMkPP1
=EoBl
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----




