From: John Young <jya@pipeline.com>
Date: Fri, 25 Aug 95 08:26:53 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: KGB_laf
Message-ID: <199508251526.LAA09545@pipe2.nyc.pipeline.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


   8-25-95. NYPaper:


   "C.I.A. Still in Dark on Spy's Damage."

      Eighteen months after the arrest of Aldrich H. Ames,
      Moscow's mole inside the Central Intelligence Agency,
      the agency has still not sounded the depths of the
      damage he did. The process of looking backward to
      reconstruct the past and understand the present -- the
      business of "walking back the cat," in espionage argot
      -- has proved immensely frustrating. Often he did not
      know the true names or roles of the people he betrayed.
      The Soviet (and later the Russian) intelligence services
      forced some of the men Mr. Ames betrayed to become pawns
      in a game of deception, using them to feed false
      information on some of those operations to the C.I.A. in
      an effort to mislead and mystify the agency. The C.I.A.
      became a laughing stock for the way in which it
      investigated itself once it knew its Soviet agents had
      been betrayed.


   8-25-95. W$Japer:


   "Russia's Threat Beneath the Surface."

      Most elements of Russias's military arsenal are
      shrinking in numbers and effectiveness. Yet Russia is
      still completing construction of submarines begun in the
      Soviet era, on about the same timetable as the Soviets
      produced them. Recently, it laid the keel for an even
      more advanced submarine and will enter the next century
      with the largest nuclear submarine fleet in the world.
      That new Russian subs are so quiet is attributable in
      part to the skill of Russian scientists and engineers,
      in part to Western technology illicitly acquired, and in
      part to help from two convicted American spies, John
      Walker and Jerry Whitworth, who for many years sold U.S.
      secrets to the Soviet Union.


   Pair of Karlas: KGB_laf (14kb)












