From: aba@dcs.exeter.ac.uk
Date: Tue, 12 Sep 95 01:05:41 PDT
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: anyone got a cpunk URL for the UK munitions T?
Message-ID: <24928.9509120805@exe.dcs.exeter.ac.uk>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



On the subject of the UK printing of the muntions T-shirt, I've got a
problem, I would like to put a URL for how to obtain the T-shirts, and
cypherpunk political material, anti ITAR, clipper etc, bu yet I can't
very well put my URL:

	http://www.dcs.ex.ac.uk/~aba/rsa/

because that may possibly move within a year, maybe sooner, and
T-shirts are so permanent :-(

It seems like too good an opportunity to miss, as some people may get
the thing nice publicity, and interest in the cypherpunks take on
encryption, so it would be ideal to have an on-line reference on the
shirt.

So what I was thinking is it would be nice if someone with a permanent
URL, could put a pointer to my URL, that could be updated later, as my
URL moves?

A cypherpunks page which has been and will be around for a *long time*
with lots of info or pointers to info on ITAR, the evils of key escrow
etc would be ideal.

I don't need the WWW space for the actual info as such, just a pointer
which can point to where-ever it is my URL moves to, and as most
cpunks URLs seem to be in the US, it wouldn't be a v good idea to put
my content on a US server anyway (arguably).

Any offers?

Also now I'm here, there were a few people on the list who ordered
shirts from me, and the progress has been slow, if you want to see the
reasons, and up-to-date state of progress, take a look at:

	http://www.dcs.ex.ac.uk/~aba/uk-shirt.html

I need to decide soon as to what URL to print, I was otherwise
thinking of removing the URL, as my sys admin made some strange
cryptic comment about me not having my URL after a while anyway (when
I finish the course, pointed comment? who knows), and I thought it
might not go down to well if I printed my URL on the T-shirt, at least
if it's an indirect pointer I have the option to get alternate WWW
space.

I have decided to switch printers as the last guy seems to have
vanished, no answers to messages on answer phone for > 1 week, and
some shirt printers (like the new one I've chosen) offer to the whole
job in a week, and people are getting impatient for their shirts.  So
I ideally need a commitment of a URL so that I can modify the design &
send of to this new printers tonight.

The main criteria, apart from a nice selection of links (I've got ITAR
and cpunk links allready anyway) is that the URL pointing at my roving
URL is going to stay there for a few years, at least.

Adam





